Starbucks Dismisses Efforts To Unionize By Turning To Automation - Allwork.Space
Starbucks is continuing to take an employee-light approach as tensions between labor unions ramp up.   The coffee-chain giant is turning to automation that will take the place of many in-store tasks.  Incoming CEO Laxman Narasimhan will lead the transition to a more automated coffee shop, taking the power away from employees seeking higher wages and more benefits.  Starbucks isn’t alone in this shift, either. Many other companies such as McDonald’s and Target have incorporated their own form of automation as demand for higher pay runs concurrently with high inflation.  While this is great for efficiency, workers must make their own moves in order to stand apart in the future of work.  This could mean reskilling to learn how to work alongside automated technology, or upskilling to fit into the new positions that will be inevitable in a modern workplace.  
Aayat is an editor for the Daily Digest based in Lexington, Kentucky. She has worked with local coworking spaces since August of 2017 and enjoys taking her firsthand knowledge to write about the fascinating, constantly evolving world of flexible workspaces.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










Salesforce To Layoff 10% Of Staff Due To Overhiring

 January 4, 2023

 





High Turnover Means Lower Production – What This Means For The Economy

 January 3, 2023

 





New York City Employees Would No Longer Be At The Will Of Managers In New Bill

 December 30, 2022

 





U.S. Jobless Claims Edge Higher, But Remain Below the “Red Flag” Range

 December 29, 2022




