Why Short Sellers Are Piling On WeWork - Allwork.Space
After failing to meet the deadline of turning a profit during its first year as a public company, WeWork is becoming home to short sellers.  Short sellers refer to investors who borrow securities, sell it on the market and eventually buy it back for a lower price, an effort to profit from a stock’s losses.   Shorts that make up more than 10% of a firm’s shares suggest a relatively pessimistic view of the economy. For WeWork, investors held short positions on over 27% of the company’s shares as of December 15 — a grim sign for the coworking firm.    WeWork went public in October of 2021, and has since continued to burn through cash. While the company has made attempts to right-size its business by closing underperforming locations, investors are skeptical of the operator’s profit timeline.   “Right now all [investors] see is WeWork promised three times to hit its break-even goal and push that out,” said Vikram Malhotra, an analyst at Mizuho.  Although its reputation has somewhat been mended since going public, experts have expressed concern over whether WeWork can weather the worsening economy.  
Aayat is an editor for the Daily Digest based in Lexington, Kentucky. She has worked with local coworking spaces since August of 2017 and enjoys taking her firsthand knowledge to write about the fascinating, constantly evolving world of flexible workspaces.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










UAE Opens First Female-Oriented Coworking Space In Dubai

 January 3, 2023

 





These Were 2022’s Top 5 Largest Coworking Firms In The U.S.

 January 3, 2023

 





WeWork-Owned Common Desk to Launch in Irving, Texas

 December 29, 2022

 





India’s Coworking Market Well-Positioned For Growth In The New Year

 December 28, 2022




