McCarthy Group begins million-pound extension in Wales | Logistics Manager
Work has started on a £1 million extension to Welsh distribution firm McCarthy Group’s Wrexham headquarters.  This will increase the company’s warehousing capacity by 18,000ft², creating space for an additional 4,000 pallets. In addition, the space available for truck parking is set to double. The 4.5-acre facility caters for daily shipments and provides storage space for UK-based and international companies. Having only opened the site four years ago, the group’s Managing Director Mike McCarthy has decided to make growth a key target and feels that the extension will help support this goal. He said: “We are extremely busy because there’s increased demand for high-quality warehousing, particularly facilities with food grade accreditation like we have.” McCarthy continued: “The opening of the first phase at Elm Point has paid dividends because it’s enabled us to attract new customers and that’s created a momentum of its own. It’s been a massive asset and the new extension will help us to build on that success.” © 2023 Akabo Media Ltd Registered No 07766641 England | All rights reserved.
Registered Office: Akabo Media, GG.007, Metal Box Factory, 30 Great Guildford St, SE1 0HS Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information. Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.



3rd Party Logistics



McCarthy Group begins million-pound extension in Wales			



By 
James McLoughlin 

5th January 2023

No Comments




LinkedIn



Tweet



Share



Email

+






Work has started on a £1 million extension to Welsh distribution firm McCarthy Group’s Wrexham headquarters. 







This will increase the company’s warehousing capacity by 18,000ft², creating space for an additional 4,000 pallets. In addition, the space available for truck parking is set to double.
The 4.5-acre facility caters for daily shipments and provides storage space for UK-based and international companies.
Having only opened the site four years ago, the group’s Managing Director Mike McCarthy has decided to make growth a key target and feels that the extension will help support this goal. He said: “We are extremely busy because there’s increased demand for high-quality warehousing, particularly facilities with food grade accreditation like we have.”
McCarthy continued: “The opening of the first phase at Elm Point has paid dividends because it’s enabled us to attract new customers and that’s created a momentum of its own. It’s been a massive asset and the new extension will help us to build on that success.”



Share this story:


LinkedIn

Twitter

Facebook

Email


 




5th January 2023

National Highways launches tyre safety initiative for commercial fleets
 




5th January 2023

Scurri partners with HIVED
 




4th January 2023

Tesla shares continue to dip



