James Webb Space telescope's most striking images of 2022 | CTV News
Article:  In images of space captured unlike anything before, the James Webb Space telescope (JWST) has treated the world to some of the most stunning photos of intergalactic wonders in the 12 months since its launch.  NASA, in partnership with the Canadian and European Space Agency, launched the JWST on Dec. 25 last year. Since then, the telescope has showcased planets in a new light, discovered new details to the cosmos and unveiled a deeper understanding to existing galaxies.  Created to extend on the discoveries made by the renowned Hubble Space telescope, the JWST became known as a step to furthering the discoveries of the universe with its massive mirror and specialized infrared light technology, capturing distant galaxies not visible to the naked eye.  Here's a look at some the stunning images captured on the JWST since it's launch:  In its first released image, JWST delivered the deepest infrared image of the distant universe by capturing the galaxy cluster known as SMACS 0723.  The deep field image was taken with the help of the telescope's NIRCam and Mid-Infrared Instrument (MIRI), detailing the galaxy cluster as it was 4.6 billion years ago, according to NASA.  While the composite image only shows a tiny patch of the sky, about the size of a grain of sand held at arm's length, JWST was still able to photograph thousands of distant galaxies appearing as the shiny, coloured speckles swarming around space's pitch dark abyss.  This image provided by NASA on Monday, July 11, 2022, shows galaxy cluster SMACS 0723, captured by the James Webb Space Telescope. (NASA/ESA/CSA/STScI via AP)  Astronomers were able to capture the JWST's first direct image of an exoplanet. HIP 65426, which resides outside of our solar system, was captured in four different infrared light filters, opening the path to learning more about the gas giant planet.  The exoplanet was first observed in 2017 when astronomers discovered the planet through short infrared wavelengths of light. With the JWST however, the HIP 65246 b image was able to capture the planet at longer wavelengths, furthering the discoveries made by ground-based telescopes.  “There are many more images of exoplanets to come that will shape our overall understanding of their physics, chemistry, and formation. We may even discover previously unknown planets, too," Aarynn Carter, lead researcher of the images said in a statement.  Exoplanet spotted by James Webb Space telescope. (NASA)  In a plume of cosmic dust and gas, newborn stars were captured by the JWST in new images of the star-forming region "pillars of creation" found within the Eagle Nebula.  Known for its three elongated and wispy columns, the pillars were originally photographed by the Hubble Space telescope in 1995 and then later revisited in 2014 to bring the world the clearest image of the pillars to date. That is until the JWST came along.  With the JWST, astronomers were able to get a better look at the glowing red infant stars forming within the nebula, which are estimated to be a few hundred thousand years old.  This combination image provided by NASA on Wednesday, Oct. 19, 2022, shows the Pillars of Creation as imaged by NASA's Hubble Space Telescope in 2014, left, and by NASA's James Webb Telescope, right. (NASA, ESA, CSA, STScI via AP)  In a display of colour not seen like anything before, the JWST was able to showcase Jupiter's auroras extending high altitudes both in the north and south poles of the planet.  Mapped in red in the new images, the bright auroras can be seen causing a haze over Jupiter, highlighting the light reflected from lower clouds. In the midst of the haze, The Great Red Spot, a massive storm that is big enough to swallow Earth, appears bright white, likely due to extremely high-altitude, according to NASA.  Researchers were stunned to get a glimpse of Jupiter's turbulent conditions and the new images make room for more possibilities in understanding the dynamics and chemistry of the planet.  "This one image sums up the science of our Jupiter system program, which studies the dynamics and chemistry of Jupiter itself, its rings, and its satellite system," researcher of the observation, Thierry Fouchet said in a statement.  This image provided by NASA shows a false color composite image of Jupiter obtained by the James Webb Space Telescope on July 27, 2022. (NASA via AP) Food banks across Canada continue to experience significant challenges due to a rise in demand amid high inflation rates— and 2023 is expected to bring similar woes, organizations have told CTV News.  Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.  Passengers travelling through Terminal 3 at Toronto Pearson International Airport are reporting serious baggage delays as the airport struggles to catch up from a broken luggage belt.  Plagued by eerily similar symptoms, a British historian, an Italian archeologist, and an American preschool teacher are credited with describing, naming and helping bring long COVID into the public's consciousness in early 2020.  Ukraine's foreign minister on Monday said that his government is aiming to have a peace summit by the end of February, preferably at the United Nations with Secretary-General Antonio Guterres as a possible mediator, around the time of the anniversary of Russia's war.  After only a year since its launch, the James Webb Space telescope has released spectacular images of galaxies, stars and planets in ways previous telescopes have taken years to capture. CTVNews.ca looks at a few of the striking pictures captured by the telescope this year and what we learned.  As hundreds of Canadians scramble to get home after their Sunwing flights from Mexico were cancelled last week, a passengers' rights advocate says stranded travellers should consider legal action if they aren't compensated.  Thousands of Canadians are spending another day in the cold and dark, as hydro crews continue working to restore electricity to those affected by the power outages caused by fierce winter storms last week.  A man and a woman have been taken to hospital with serious injuries following a single-vehicle collision on Highway 407 in Vaughan, Ont.  Food banks across Canada continue to experience significant challenges due to a rise in demand amid high inflation rates— and 2023 is expected to bring similar woes, organizations have told CTV News.  The revelations during the Nova Scotia mass shooting inquiry are the latest to fuel a distrust in Canada's national police force that some experts suggest has been building for years.  Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.  Military police don't know -- or won't say -- how many of the dozens of cases involving criminal sexual behaviour referred to civilian counterparts over the past year have resulted in charges.  Passengers travelling through Terminal 3 at Toronto Pearson International Airport are reporting serious baggage delays as the airport struggles to catch up from a broken luggage belt.  A man and a woman have been taken to hospital with serious injuries following a single-vehicle collision on Highway 407 in Vaughan, Ont.  Russia has put the investigative journalist Christo Grozev on its "wanted" list, according to the Russian Interior Ministry.  Pakistani forces on Monday expanded their search for the perpetrators behind multiple attacks that killed six troops and wounded 17 civilians in a restive southwestern province the previous day.  A man arrested for attempting to set off a bomb in protest against Brazil's election result was inspired to build up an arsenal by far-right President Jair Bolsonaro's call to arms, according to a copy of his police testimony seen by Reuters.  China's military sent 71 planes and seven ships toward Taiwan in a 24-hour display of force directed at the self-ruled island, Taiwan's Defense Ministry said Monday, after China expressed anger at Taiwan-related provisions in a U.S. annual defence spending bill.  Spanish authorities announced Monday that they had recovered another body after a bus plunged 30 metres (100 feet) from a bridge into a river on Christmas Eve, raising the toll of the fatal crash to seven dead and two injured.  Russia's FSB security service said on Monday that a four-person Ukrainian 'sabotage group' had been 'liquidated' while trying to enter Russia's Bryansk region, which borders Ukraine, on Sunday, Russian news agencies reported.  Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.  Canada's international development minister is calling on the Taliban to reverse its decision to bar women from working at non-governmental organizations in Afghanistan.  Canada's transport minister took aim at Via Rail on Saturday after some passengers were left stranded overnight on stalled trains following the recent winter storm.  Health Canada has posted a number of food recalls in the last month, ranging from chocolate containing undeclared allergens to gluten-free nuggets containing pieces of rubber.  The Canadian Food Inspection Agency has expanded a recall for alpha brand plant-based products because they contain milk that is not listed on the label.  One day in July 2021, my then 15-year-old daughter Poppy stumbled and fell while walking down some stairs, grazing her knee. It wasn't a serious wound, but over the weeks it didn't heal. I took Poppy to doctors who conducted tests, but they couldn't find out what was wrong with her. Then, in October, a breakthrough.  After only a year since its launch, the James Webb Space telescope has released spectacular images of galaxies, stars and planets in ways previous telescopes have taken years to capture. CTVNews.ca looks at a few of the striking pictures captured by the telescope this year and what we learned.  Scientists have identified two minerals never before seen on Earth in a meteorite weighing 15.2 metric tonnes.  Canadian scientists have announced the discovery of a fossil preserved with its last meal, a rare finding that sheds light on what the ancient ecosystem may have looked like.  Cher posted an eye-catching photo of a humongous diamond ring to Twitter over Christmas, which set the internet ablaze with speculation that she got engaged to rapper and music executive Alexander "AE" Edwards, who she has been linked with.  The chorus against Ticketmaster's contentious concert pricing practices is growing, numbering among them Zach Bryan and friends.  Rapper Meek Mill has paid bail for 20 women so that they can spend the holidays at home, according to the REFORM Alliance, an organization he launched in 2019 alongside Jay-Z.  Last week, as FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was being extradited to the United States from the Bahamas, two of his former business partners pleaded guilty to multiple charges of fraud and conspiracy.  Holiday sales rose this year as American spending remained resilient during the critical shopping season despite surging prices on everything from food to rent, according to one measure.  Regardless of whether or not the country sees a recession in the near future, it’s still a good idea to create a financial action plan to help mitigate your risks. Personal finance contributor Christopher Liew shares some practical tips to help you and your family prepare.  For Catalina Bernal Andrade, Christmas 2009 was unusual -- in more ways than one.  Fifties' child star Gayla Peevy's plea for a 'hippopotamus for Christmas' came true for one Virginia zoo.  It's a special Christmas for Joven Rai and Winona Bhatti, who recently got engaged in Santorini, Greece, but their journey there was far from ideal.  Attilio Biasca scored the game-winning goal 41 seconds into overtime as Switzerland opened the world junior hockey championship with a 3-2 win over Finland on Monday.  The United States will permit Major League Baseball players from Cuba to represent their home country in the World Baseball Classic next year.  A star-studded Canadian roster is looking to secure the country's 20th podium-topping performance at world junior hockey championship set to open Boxing Day in Halifax and Moncton, N.B.  Casino giant Caesars Entertainment is offering what may be the most extravagant guest package for next year's highly anticipated Formula One Las Vegas Grand Prix at a whopping US$5 million.  Each province and territory has resources to check and contact regarding road conditions so that you can complete your trip safely, or be aware of possible issues before you travel. CTVNews.ca lists what you need to know depending on where you live.  As Canadians cope with travel chaos compounded by severe weather, experts share tips for getting where you want to go.  CTV News Programs Local News © 2022 

 All rights reserved. Use of this Website assumes acceptance of Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy
Article: 






                        James Webb Space telescope's amazing images show the Universe unlike anything before
                    














 






                        A 15-tonne meteorite crashed in Africa. Now 2 new minerals have been found in it
                    














 






                        Fossil reveals last meal of a dinosaur that lived 120 million years ago
                    














 






                        How to avoid getting caught up in a romance scam over the holidays, according to an ex-con artist
                    














 






                        Have a safe trip: Oregon trains magic mushroom facilitators
                    














 






                        Astronauts embark on spacewalk after space debris triggered one-day delay
                    














 






                        Meta agrees to pay US$725 million to settle lawsuit over Cambridge Analytica data leak
                    














 






                        NASA Mars lander InSight falls silent after 4 years
                    














 






                        'Never experienced a festive season this difficult': Why food banks are calling on donations, long-term solutions
                    

Food banks across Canada continue to experience significant challenges due to a rise in demand amid high inflation rates— and 2023 is expected to bring similar woes, organizations have told CTV News.














 






                        'Freedom Convoy' organizers now promising 'world unity convoy' in Winnipeg in February
                    

Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.




 






                        'This is a joke, right?': Some travellers' baggage lost for days as Pearson struggles with broken luggage belt
                    

Passengers travelling through Terminal 3 at Toronto Pearson International Airport are reporting serious baggage delays as the airport struggles to catch up from a broken luggage belt.




 






                        Long COVID: Could mono virus or fat cells be playing roles?
                    

Plagued by eerily similar symptoms, a British historian, an Italian archeologist, and an American preschool teacher are credited with describing, naming and helping bring long COVID into the public's consciousness in early 2020.




 






                        The AP Interview: Ukraine's foreign minister aims for February peace summit
                    

Ukraine's foreign minister on Monday said that his government is aiming to have a peace summit by the end of February, preferably at the United Nations with Secretary-General Antonio Guterres as a possible mediator, around the time of the anniversary of Russia's war.




 






                        James Webb Space telescope's amazing images show the Universe unlike anything before
                    

After only a year since its launch, the James Webb Space telescope has released spectacular images of galaxies, stars and planets in ways previous telescopes have taken years to capture. CTVNews.ca looks at a few of the striking pictures captured by the telescope this year and what we learned.




 






                        Passenger advocate urges stranded Sunwing passengers in Mexico to take legal action
                    

As hundreds of Canadians scramble to get home after their Sunwing flights from Mexico were cancelled last week, a passengers' rights advocate says stranded travellers should consider legal action if they aren't compensated.




 






                        Thousands remain in the dark days after fierce storms knocked out power
                    

Thousands of Canadians are spending another day in the cold and dark, as hydro crews continue working to restore electricity to those affected by the power outages caused by fierce winter storms last week.




 






                        Man and woman seriously injured in Highway 407 collision in Vaughan, Ont.
                    

A man and a woman have been taken to hospital with serious injuries following a single-vehicle collision on Highway 407 in Vaughan, Ont.




 






                        'Never experienced a festive season this difficult': Why food banks are calling on donations, long-term solutions
                    

Food banks across Canada continue to experience significant challenges due to a rise in demand amid high inflation rates— and 2023 is expected to bring similar woes, organizations have told CTV News.














 






                        With trust collapsing in the RCMP, some call for 'broken force' to be rebuilt
                    

The revelations during the Nova Scotia mass shooting inquiry are the latest to fuel a distrust in Canada's national police force that some experts suggest has been building for years.














 






                        'Freedom Convoy' organizers now promising 'world unity convoy' in Winnipeg in February
                    

Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.




 






                        Military can't - or won't - reveal outcomes of criminal sexual cases passed to civilians
                    

Military police don't know -- or won't say -- how many of the dozens of cases involving criminal sexual behaviour referred to civilian counterparts over the past year have resulted in charges.




 






                        'This is a joke, right?': Some travellers' baggage lost for days as Pearson struggles with broken luggage belt
                    

Passengers travelling through Terminal 3 at Toronto Pearson International Airport are reporting serious baggage delays as the airport struggles to catch up from a broken luggage belt.




 






                        Man and woman seriously injured in Highway 407 collision in Vaughan, Ont.
                    

A man and a woman have been taken to hospital with serious injuries following a single-vehicle collision on Highway 407 in Vaughan, Ont.




 






                        Russia puts foreign investigative journalist on its 'wanted' list
                    

Russia has put the investigative journalist Christo Grozev on its "wanted" list, according to the Russian Interior Ministry.














 






                        Pakistan troops search for attackers after 6 soldiers killed
                    

Pakistani forces on Monday expanded their search for the perpetrators behind multiple attacks that killed six troops and wounded 17 civilians in a restive southwestern province the previous day.














 






                        Bolsonaro's call to arms inspired foiled Brazil bomb plot, police are told
                    

A man arrested for attempting to set off a bomb in protest against Brazil's election result was inspired to build up an arsenal by far-right President Jair Bolsonaro's call to arms, according to a copy of his police testimony seen by Reuters.




 






                        China sends 71 warplanes, 7 ships toward Taiwan in 24 hours
                    

China's military sent 71 planes and seven ships toward Taiwan in a 24-hour display of force directed at the self-ruled island, Taiwan's Defense Ministry said Monday, after China expressed anger at Taiwan-related provisions in a U.S. annual defence spending bill.




 






                        7th body discovered after bus plunged into Spanish river
                    

Spanish authorities announced Monday that they had recovered another body after a bus plunged 30 metres (100 feet) from a bridge into a river on Christmas Eve, raising the toll of the fatal crash to seven dead and two injured.




 






                        Russia's FSB says Ukrainian saboteurs 'liquidated' while trying to enter border region: agencies
                    

Russia's FSB security service said on Monday that a four-person Ukrainian 'sabotage group' had been 'liquidated' while trying to enter Russia's Bryansk region, which borders Ukraine, on Sunday, Russian news agencies reported.




 






                        'Freedom Convoy' organizers now promising 'world unity convoy' in Winnipeg in February
                    

Organizers of the original 'Freedom Convoy' protest that paralyzed downtown Ottawa for three weeks in early 2022 say they’re bringing a new convoy to Winnipeg this winter.














 






                        Canada urges Taliban to reverse decision on banning women from NGO work
                    

Canada's international development minister is calling on the Taliban to reverse its decision to bar women from working at non-governmental organizations in Afghanistan.




 






                        'Unacceptable': Transport minister critiques Via Rail situation as Christmas Day trains cancelled
                    

Canada's transport minister took aim at Via Rail on Saturday after some passengers were left stranded overnight on stalled trains following the recent winter storm.




 






                        Pieces of rubber, listeria and undeclared allergens: Several food products recalled in Canada
                    

Health Canada has posted a number of food recalls in the last month, ranging from chocolate containing undeclared allergens to gluten-free nuggets containing pieces of rubber.














 






                        alpha brand plant-based breakfast sandwiches, burritos recalled over undeclared milk
                    

The Canadian Food Inspection Agency has expanded a recall for alpha brand plant-based products because they contain milk that is not listed on the label.




 






                        Millions have the same 'bendy body' disease as my daughter. Why isn't the medical profession paying more attention?
                    

One day in July 2021, my then 15-year-old daughter Poppy stumbled and fell while walking down some stairs, grazing her knee. It wasn't a serious wound, but over the weeks it didn't heal. I took Poppy to doctors who conducted tests, but they couldn't find out what was wrong with her. Then, in October, a breakthrough.




 






                        James Webb Space telescope's amazing images show the Universe unlike anything before
                    

After only a year since its launch, the James Webb Space telescope has released spectacular images of galaxies, stars and planets in ways previous telescopes have taken years to capture. CTVNews.ca looks at a few of the striking pictures captured by the telescope this year and what we learned.














 






                        A 15-tonne meteorite crashed in Africa. Now 2 new minerals have been found in it
                    

Scientists have identified two minerals never before seen on Earth in a meteorite weighing 15.2 metric tonnes.




 






                        Fossil reveals last meal of a dinosaur that lived 120 million years ago
                    

Canadian scientists have announced the discovery of a fossil preserved with its last meal, a rare finding that sheds light on what the ancient ecosystem may have looked like.




 






                        Cher showcases incredible diamond on Twitter for Christmas -- but is it an engagement ring?
                    

Cher posted an eye-catching photo of a humongous diamond ring to Twitter over Christmas, which set the internet ablaze with speculation that she got engaged to rapper and music executive Alexander "AE" Edwards, who she has been linked with.














 






                        Zach Bryan drops 'All My Homies Hate Ticketmaster' album
                    

The chorus against Ticketmaster's contentious concert pricing practices is growing, numbering among them Zach Bryan and friends.




 






                        Rapper Meek Mill pays bail for 20 women so they can spend the holidays at home
                    

Rapper Meek Mill has paid bail for 20 women so that they can spend the holidays at home, according to the REFORM Alliance, an organization he launched in 2019 alongside Jay-Z.




 






                        Business partners turn on Sam Bankman-Fried
                    

Last week, as FTX founder Sam Bankman-Fried was being extradited to the United States from the Bahamas, two of his former business partners pleaded guilty to multiple charges of fraud and conspiracy.














 






                        Holiday sales in U.S. up 7.6 per cent despite the squeeze of inflation
                    

Holiday sales rose this year as American spending remained resilient during the critical shopping season despite surging prices on everything from food to rent, according to one measure.




 


opinion

opinion  |

                        Your financial action plan for 2023 amid a potential recession
                    

Regardless of whether or not the country sees a recession in the near future, it’s still a good idea to create a financial action plan to help mitigate your risks. Personal finance contributor Christopher Liew shares some practical tips to help you and your family prepare.




 






                        Two strangers fell in love on a plane on Christmas Day
                    

For Catalina Bernal Andrade, Christmas 2009 was unusual -- in more ways than one.














 






                        This Virginia zoo really got a hippopotamus for Christmas
                    

Fifties' child star Gayla Peevy's plea for a 'hippopotamus for Christmas' came true for one Virginia zoo.




 






                        Surrey, B.C., man's marriage proposal nearly ruined by flight delays
                    

It's a special Christmas for Joven Rai and Winona Bhatti, who recently got engaged in Santorini, Greece, but their journey there was far from ideal.




 






                        Switzerland opens world juniors with 3-2 OT win over Finland
                    

Attilio Biasca scored the game-winning goal 41 seconds into overtime as Switzerland opened the world junior hockey championship with a 3-2 win over Finland on Monday.














 






                        U.S. to let MLB stars play for Cuba in World Baseball Classic
                    

The United States will permit Major League Baseball players from Cuba to represent their home country in the World Baseball Classic next year.




 






                        Canada set to begin quest for 20th gold medal at world juniors
                    

A star-studded Canadian roster is looking to secure the country's 20th podium-topping performance at world junior hockey championship set to open Boxing Day in Halifax and Moncton, N.B.




 






                        Caesars touts F1 Las Vegas Grand Prix VIP package worth US$5M
                    

Casino giant Caesars Entertainment is offering what may be the most extravagant guest package for next year's highly anticipated Formula One Las Vegas Grand Prix at a whopping US$5 million.














 






                        How to check road conditions in your area before you travel
                    

Each province and territory has resources to check and contact regarding road conditions so that you can complete your trip safely, or be aware of possible issues before you travel. CTVNews.ca lists what you need to know depending on where you live.




 






                        Travelling by plane, train or automobile during the storm? Here's some expert advice
                    

As Canadians cope with travel chaos compounded by severe weather, experts share tips for getting where you want to go.





Article: 
Article: 
Article: 