BOS’ Intelligent Robotics Division Receives a $565,000 Follow-on Order from an Israeli Strategic Customer



The Tech Outlook - Daily Tech News, Interviews, Reviews and Updates

 RISHON LE ZION, Israel, Dec. 30, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — BOS Better Online Solutions Ltd. (“BOS” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: BOSC) announced today that its Intelligent Robotics Division has received an order of $565,000 from an Israeli strategic defense sector customer. Eyal Cohen, BOS’ CEO, stated: “This follow-on order further validates our focus on sales to customers with extensive ongoing automation needs. This defense sector customer is transitioning to automated manufacturing, and we expect it will place additional significant orders in the future.” About BOS BOS provides services and systems for inventory production and management in three channels: Contact: Eyal Cohen, CEO+972-542525925 | [email protected] Safe Harbor Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of BOS. These risk factors and uncertainties include, amongst others, the dependency of sales being generated from one or few major customers, the uncertainty of BOS being able to maintain current gross profit margins, inability to keep up or ahead of technology and to succeed in a highly competitive industry, failure to successfully integrate and achieve the potential benefits of the acquisition of the business operations of Imdecol Ltd. (the Robotics business line) and Dagesh Inventory Counting and Maintenance Ltd., inability to maintain marketing and distribution arrangements and to expand our overseas markets, uncertainty with respect to the prospects of legal claims against BOS, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, general worldwide economic conditions, the impact of the COVID-19 virus and continued availability of financing for working capital purposes and to refinance outstanding indebtedness; and additional risks and uncertainties detailed in BOS’ periodic reports and registration statements filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. BOS undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in its expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.  Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with GlobeNewswire. TheTechOutlook.com takes no editorial responsibility for the same.  

Wireless Telecom Group Announces Closing of Transaction with E-Space 

  

Micron Appoints Mark Montierth as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of… 

  

Innofactor Plc: Share Repurchase 30.12.2022 

  

Homeland Security Corporation and Officer Transactions of Company Stock 

 Advertisement 


Reviews 

  
Realme Narzo 50i vs Redmi 9 Activ: Which is the Best Smartphone? 
  
Sale Alert: Lenovo Smart Tab M10 Plus (2nd Gen) with the Google… 
  
Samsung Galaxy Book 2 Pro vs Samsung Galaxy Tab S8 Ultra: A fight… 
  
OPPO Reno 8z vs Vivo V25 – Comparison between two Camera Rivals! 
  
Samsung Galaxy A32 vs Vivo Y35, check which smartphone is better 
  
Moto Edge 30 Ultra vs iPhone 13, Compare Specs, Price here 
  
Redmi Note 10s vs Infinix Note 12; which NOTE will you pick Redmi or… 
  
Vivo Y16 vs Oppo A17; What will you pick at 12K? 
  
Motorola Edge 30 v/s Samsung Galaxy M53 5G: Let’s pick a winner! 
  
Realme 9i vs POCO M4 Pro 5G: A Spec Comparison 
 


Editor's Pick 

  
Urvashi Rautela’s Recent Tweets Has Some Real Serious… 
  
A theft inspired by the Movie ‘Office Space’ 
 


Reviews 

  
Realme Narzo 50i vs Redmi 9 Activ: Which is the Best… 
  
Sale Alert: Lenovo Smart Tab M10 Plus (2nd Gen) with the… 
 
This website uses cookies to improve your experience. We'll assume you're ok with this, but you can opt-out if you wish.
Accept
Read More




BOS’ Intelligent Robotics Division Receives a $565,000 Follow-on Order from an Israeli Strategic Customer

Press Release

By Globe Newswire 
On Dec 30, 2022



 


RISHON LE ZION, Israel, Dec. 30, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — BOS Better Online Solutions Ltd. (“BOS” or the “Company”) (NASDAQ: BOSC) announced today that its Intelligent Robotics Division has received an order of $565,000 from an Israeli strategic defense sector customer.
Eyal Cohen, BOS’ CEO, stated: “This follow-on order further validates our focus on sales to customers with extensive ongoing automation needs. This defense sector customer is transitioning to automated manufacturing, and we expect it will place additional significant orders in the future.”
 About BOS
BOS provides services and systems for inventory production and management in three channels:

Services – The Supply Chain division provides inventory procurement and kitting.
Integration – the RFID division provides off-the-shelf software and equipment to track and manage inventory in the production floor and warehouse.
Development – the Intelligent Robotics division develops and builds custom-made robotic cells for industrial and logistic processes.

Contact: Eyal Cohen, CEO+972-542525925 | [email protected]
Safe Harbor Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The forward-looking statements contained herein reflect management’s current views with respect to future events and financial performance. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements, all of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond the control of BOS. These risk factors and uncertainties include, amongst others, the dependency of sales being generated from one or few major customers, the uncertainty of BOS being able to maintain current gross profit margins, inability to keep up or ahead of technology and to succeed in a highly competitive industry, failure to successfully integrate and achieve the potential benefits of the acquisition of the business operations of Imdecol Ltd. (the Robotics business line) and Dagesh Inventory Counting and Maintenance Ltd., inability to maintain marketing and distribution arrangements and to expand our overseas markets, uncertainty with respect to the prospects of legal claims against BOS, the effect of exchange rate fluctuations, general worldwide economic conditions, the impact of the COVID-19 virus and continued availability of financing for working capital purposes and to refinance outstanding indebtedness; and additional risks and uncertainties detailed in BOS’ periodic reports and registration statements filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission. BOS undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in its expectations or in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements may be based, or that may affect the likelihood that actual results will differ from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.

Disclaimer: The above press release comes to you under an arrangement with GlobeNewswire. TheTechOutlook.com takes no editorial responsibility for the same.  





 Share

 



