Drain-Cleaning Robots Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers - Robotics India Live

								Robotics India Live							  Drain-Cleaning Robot Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers The Tiruchy City corporation is set to blaze a new trail by adopting robotic technology to assist in the completion of the underground drainage (UGD) system works across the city. If all goes well, the technology would be adopted this month itself to identify blockages occurring in the network. The UGD works are expected to be completed in two months. Though diaphragm chambers have been put in place in most of the city buildings, officials remain wary of the UGD network getting clogged with non-biodegradable waste, pushing them to mull robotic technology in aiding Corporation Commissioner R Vaithinathan said, “A company is willing to sell robots to the corporation. However, we have requested the company to deploy a team to overlook the process and spot blockages. They would be paid for their service.” A senior official said, “If conceived, we will be the only local body in the state to make use of such a technology in monitoring UGD works. Robotic assistance is preferred over surveillance cameras since we do not have to keep worrying about constant upgrades to it.” Apart from this, robotic technology would put an end to manual scavenging, officials said. “The existing machines to clear blockages in the UGD line consumes time, with some of the work dragging on to over two days. Robotic technology would make the work easier,” a corporation engineer said. Help us grow our Positive Movement We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons.Drain-Cleaning Robot Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and Robotics startup related news  Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up for The Robotics India Our Newsletters
NameNameEmailEnter your email addressPhone NumberPhone NumberSign Up Events Publish Home Newsletter About You can subscribe to our newsletter below to get regular updates on our availability. We share a curated list of best stories on AI & machine learning No thanks, I’m not interested!





Cleaning Robot Robotics Underwater Robots 


				Drain-Cleaning Robots Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers			


 January 2, 2023January 2, 2023




						Roboticsindia					



 0 Comments 


Share it now!Drain-Cleaning Robot Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers
The Tiruchy City corporation is set to blaze a new trail by adopting robotic technology to assist in the completion of the underground drainage (UGD) system works across the city.
If all goes well, the technology would be adopted this month itself to identify blockages occurring in the network. The UGD works are expected to be completed in two months.
Though diaphragm chambers have been put in place in most of the city buildings, officials remain wary of the UGD network getting clogged with non-biodegradable waste, pushing them to mull robotic technology in aiding Corporation Commissioner R Vaithinathan said, “A company is willing to sell robots to the corporation.
Drain-Cleaning Robot Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers
However, we have requested the company to deploy a team to overlook the process and spot blockages. They would be paid for their service.” A senior official said, “If conceived, we will be the only local body in the state to make use of such a technology in monitoring UGD works.
Robotic assistance is preferred over surveillance cameras since we do not have to keep worrying about constant upgrades to it.” Apart from this, robotic technology would put an end to manual scavenging, officials said. “The existing machines to clear blockages in the UGD line consumes time, with some of the work dragging on to over two days. Robotic technology would make the work easier,” a corporation engineer said.
Help us grow our Positive Movement
We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons.Drain-Cleaning Robot Will help Tiruchy Sewage Workers for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and Robotics startup related news

  

Related
Share it now! 




