Ringbots Can Move When Subjected to IR Light - Hackster.io
Please ensure that JavaScript is enabled in your browser to view this page. A team of researchers from North Carolina State University has developed tiny robots that can move when hit by infrared (IR) light or subjected to high temperatures. Known as Ringbots, the circular robots can also move tiny payloads across surfaces on air and underwater and pass through gaps smaller than the robots themselves. The Ringbots were designed using liquid crystal elastomers in the shape of a bracelet-like looping ribbon. The segment of the ribbon touching the surface compresses when placed on a surface that is 55°C (131°F) hotter than ambient temperatures, while the portion exposed to the air does not. This allows the robots to roll or contort their shape for movement. The same is done using IR. For example, when an IR beam hits a portion of the ring, it begins a rolling motion while the other portion not hit with IR remains unchanged, enabling the robot to roll in the contorted direction. This means that the robots move from the bottom up when placed on a hot surface, while movement begins from the top down when exposed to IR light. The robot’s motion is described as being in a bistable state, meaning there are two shapes when it’s at rest. If the ribbon begins to twist, it will either snap back to its original shape or forward into the other bistable state, turning itself inside out. The researchers demonstrated that the Ringbots could adapt their body shape enough to squeeze through a confined space 30% narrower than their diameter.  “This is a fundamental advance, not something designed with a specific application in mind,” explains Yao Zhao, a postdoctoral researcher at NC State. “We are demonstrating what can be accomplished when ‘physical intelligence’ is engineered into the material and the design of the structure itself, teaming it to move and navigate space without computational input.” Hackster.io, an Avnet Community © 2023
Ringbots Can Move When Subjected to IR LightNC State researchers created a ring-shaped soft robot capable of crawling across surfaces when exposed to elevated temperatures or IR light.Cabe AtwellFollow2 minutes ago • RoboticsThe small Ringbots can also take advantage of high temperatures to move and carry tiny payloads across surfaces. (📷: NC State) A team of researchers from North Carolina State University has developed tiny robots that can move when hit by infrared (IR) light or subjected to high temperatures. Known as Ringbots, the circular robots can also move tiny payloads across surfaces on air and underwater and pass through gaps smaller than the robots themselves.The Ringbots were designed using liquid crystal elastomers in the shape of a bracelet-like looping ribbon. The segment of the ribbon touching the surface compresses when placed on a surface that is 55°C (131°F) hotter than ambient temperatures, while the portion exposed to the air does not. This allows the robots to roll or contort their shape for movement.The same is done using IR. For example, when an IR beam hits a portion of the ring, it begins a rolling motion while the other portion not hit with IR remains unchanged, enabling the robot to roll in the contorted direction. This means that the robots move from the bottom up when placed on a hot surface, while movement begins from the top down when exposed to IR light.The robot’s motion is described as being in a bistable state, meaning there are two shapes when it’s at rest. If the ribbon begins to twist, it will either snap back to its original shape or forward into the other bistable state, turning itself inside out. The researchers demonstrated that the Ringbots could adapt their body shape enough to squeeze through a confined space 30% narrower than their diameter. “This is a fundamental advance, not something designed with a specific application in mind,” explains Yao Zhao, a postdoctoral researcher at NC State. “We are demonstrating what can be accomplished when ‘physical intelligence’ is engineered into the material and the design of the structure itself, teaming it to move and navigate space without computational input.”roboticsmotionCabe AtwellFollow 


