4 HR Trends for 2023 - Allwork.Space
What does 2023 have in store for the workforce? Here are 4 trends to look out for:   1. Homelike workspaces  The widespread shift to remote work – and employers’ subsequent attempts to bring people back to the office – has led to a design rethink.  Expect to see more homelike or coffee shop settings with features such as plants, couches and soft seating arrangements. Workspaces will also allow people to work from different areas – for example, at a desk, at a shared table, or even outdoors – in much the same way as they would at home.  2. Metaverse adoption  One of the greatest potential uses for the metaverse is its ability to onboard, train, and upskill people. Therefore, it’s expected that HR will be an early adopter of the technology.  In a PwC survey, 82% of respondents expect the metaverse to be part of their business activities within three years, with onboarding and training expected to be its biggest use.   3. A clampdown on remote work?  Some experts think there may be a clampdown on remote work in 2023 – especially if there’s a recession. This is because employees want to “be seen” in the office and help ensure job stability.  However, remote work can help companies save money by reducing real estate costs. If a recession does occur, more firms may choose to cull their office space rather than their people.  A lot has changed since the onset of the pandemic and remote work is now widely accepted. Either way, workers with experience and in-demand skills will continue to have the upper hand.  4. Quiet hiring  The latest ‘quiet’ buzzword is ‘quiet hiring’, which may replace ‘quiet quitting’ in 2023.  Quiet quitting is based on the idea that workers are doing the bare minimum, rather than going above and beyond. This is often associated with unhappiness in their work environment.  In contrast, quiet hiring rewards those people who do go above and beyond by giving them better job opportunities and promotions.  This internal mobility could become a trend in 2023, especially for companies that struggle to recruit new talent.  
Jo is Allwork.Space's Senior Editor for the UK and Europe. Jo has worked within business centre and coworking circles since 2009, researching and contributing written features for numerous industry publications. She reports on the latest market news and delves into local issues with one main objective: to champion the flexible workspace industry and its members.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










U.S. Jobless Claims Edge Higher, But Remain Below the “Red Flag” Range

 December 29, 2022

 





Would You Want to Reveal Your Salary? Soon, You May Not Have a Choice

 December 29, 2022

 





These Are The Incoming Challenges Worrying Hiring Managers

 December 28, 2022

 





The Top 3 Changes To Impact The U.S. Workforce In 2023

 December 28, 2022




