Usage of AI, robotics & data analytics increasing in textile industry: ITF
You are here: Home > Sectors > Textile/Garments/Handicraft New Delhi, Dec 29 (KNN) The textile machinery manufacturers nowadays have increased the usage of technology such as artificial intelligence, robotics, and data analytics, said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF). ITF on Wednesday organised an event for textile professionals on use of modern technology in spinning.  Addressing the occasion, Dhamodharan said, “the focus now among textile spinning units was on use of less space and energy and achieve high productivity.” Robotics is getting into machinery on a larger scale and the entire management of the shop floor and monitoring production processes are going digital, he said, adding that automation is increasing at all friction points in the production process. Dhamodharan pointed out that it is possible to make changes on a daily basis with data available from the machinery and use of artificial intelligence to get better productivity. As per reports, a total of eight textile machinery manufacturers who had exhibited machinery at ITME 2022 were invited to make presentations about the new technical developments in their machinery. During the course of the event, a group of young textile entrepreneurs took part in a panel discussion on new technology initiatives. ITF plans to organise tech talks regularly to share knowledge on the technical developments to make optimum use of the modern machinery by the Industry.  (KNN Bureau) New Delhi, Dec 29 (KNN) The textile machinery manufacturers nowadays have increased the usage… New Delhi, Dec 28 (KNN) Under the National Technical Textile Mission (NTTM),the Ministry of… New Delhi, Dec 27 (KNN) With the elimination of duty, India’s exports of textiles… Ahmedabad, Dec 27 (KNN) The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) on… New Delhi, Dec 26 (KNN) According to the Year-End- Review of Department of Textiles–…  Your email address will not be published.Required fields are marked * 
Nicknames:*

 
E-mail address:*

 
Your website:

 
Comment:

 


 


 



