Malaysia Coworking Operator Launches Startup-Focused Office Brand - Allwork.Space
Malaysia-based coworking operator INFINITY8 has launched a new, affordable brand geared towards entrepreneurs, small businesses and startups.  KONGSI WORK, deriving from the Malay word “Kongsi” that translates to “share,” will span 10,000 square feet and offer a variety of workspaces and amenities for professionals  Located in Taman Molek, the fully-equipped workspace will feature 51 offices, private meeting rooms, smart-lock doors, automated mailboxes and more.  “As its name suggests, we envision this brand to be a solution for SMEs and individuals…” said Lee Sheah, founder and CEO of INFINITY8. “We aim to offer a space to nurture local businesses and provide them with a practical option, conducive for growth and community to thrive.”  
Aayat is an editor for the Daily Digest based in Lexington, Kentucky. She has worked with local coworking spaces since August of 2017 and enjoys taking her firsthand knowledge to write about the fascinating, constantly evolving world of flexible workspaces.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










WeWork-Owned Common Desk to Launch in Irving, Texas

 December 29, 2022

 





India’s Coworking Market Well-Positioned For Growth In The New Year

 December 28, 2022

 





WeWork India Receives $66.5 Million To Go Towards Expansion

 December 27, 2022

 





Columbus Coworking Operator Continues Ohio Expansion

 December 23, 2022




