14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon - Robotics India Live

								Robotics India Live							  14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon 14 students from two Atal Tinkering Labs in Andhra Pradesh selected to compete in global hackathon to be organised in Gurugram While 13 selected students are from Visakhapatnam, one student is from Kadapa Out of 700 Atal Tinkering Labs (ATLs) from all the 26 districts in Andhra Pradesh, 14 students from two ATLs have been selected to participate in a three-day international hackathon for high school students to be organised in Gurugram, Haryana, from December 30. The Shelburne-based Hack Club from the US, a global network of high school computer hackers, makers and coders will organise the event, for the first time in India. Thirteen students, including five girls, studying from classes 8 to 10 of Sri Sarada Vidyanilayam (SSV), Nakkavanipalem, are from Visakhapatnam, while one student is from the ATL of Nagarjuna Model School in Kadapa. Speaking to The Hindu, the ATL’s Visakhapatnam Regional Mentor V. Raja Sekhar said, “These students are an inspiration to other ATL students in the State. The motivation of teachers and parents makes the children to work hard for success in the International Hackathon, which will test the coding skills of the students.” Explaining the concept of ATLs, Mr. Raja Sekhar said that it was nothing but a lab for students to experiment with their innovative ideas and thoughts with the basic equipment available. The ATLs act as mentors to the students at the foundation-level, he added. From 2018, ATLs have been launched in the State in a phased manner. An average of around 200 students are mentored at each ATL. Of the 10,000 ATLs across the country, 20 are located in Visakhapatnam and 700 in Andhra Pradesh, he said while adding that the ATLs are part of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) set up by NITI Aayog with an objective to create and encourage an environment of innovation and entrepreneurship among the school students. The SSV school’s ATL in-charge P.D.L.N. Srinivasa Rao said, “This will be a great opportunity for all of us. The students got this opportunity because of their active performance in tinkering activities ranging from basic electronics, IoT, robotics, cultivation, astronomy to artistic skills like wool crafts.” The SSV’s Class X student N. Pavani, who is active in coding, said: “Since my father is a mason, I closely observe his work, apart from learning other aspects from our teachers. It helped me a lot to push me towards tinkering activities. It is a great opportunity for me and my co-students.” Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that it was a matter of pride that students of Visakhapatnam ATL, which is associated with the Institution’s Innovation Council of Andhra University, have been selected for the international hackathon. “AU’s guidance has helped ATL achieve various recognitions including this global opportunity. We are ready to support schools and students in future,” Prof. Prasad Reddy said. We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons. 14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and Indian drone-related news. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up for The Robotics India Our Newsletters
NameNameEmailEnter your email addressPhone NumberPhone NumberSign Up Events Publish Home Newsletter About You can subscribe to our newsletter below to get regular updates on our availability. We share a curated list of best stories on AI & machine learning No thanks, I’m not interested!





hackathons Innovation Robotics Robotics India 


				14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon			


 December 29, 2022December 29, 2022




						Roboticsindia					



 0 Comments 
Drones, Drones News, Indian robots, Robotics, robotics india, Robotics india live, Robots News

Share it now!14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon
14 students from two Atal Tinkering Labs in Andhra Pradesh selected to compete in global hackathon to be organised in Gurugram
While 13 selected students are from Visakhapatnam, one student is from Kadapa
Out of 700 Atal Tinkering Labs (ATLs) from all the 26 districts in Andhra Pradesh, 14 students from two ATLs have been selected to participate in a three-day international hackathon for high school students to be organised in Gurugram, Haryana, from December 30. The Shelburne-based Hack Club from the US, a global network of high school computer hackers, makers and coders will organise the event, for the first time in India.
Thirteen students, including five girls, studying from classes 8 to 10 of Sri Sarada Vidyanilayam (SSV), Nakkavanipalem, are from Visakhapatnam, while one student is from the ATL of Nagarjuna Model School in Kadapa.
Speaking to The Hindu, the ATL’s Visakhapatnam Regional Mentor V. Raja Sekhar said, “These students are an inspiration to other ATL students in the State. The motivation of teachers and parents makes the children to work hard for success in the International Hackathon, which will test the coding skills of the students.”
Explaining the concept of ATLs, Mr. Raja Sekhar said that it was nothing but a lab for students to experiment with their innovative ideas and thoughts with the basic equipment available. The ATLs act as mentors to the students at the foundation-level, he added.
14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon
From 2018, ATLs have been launched in the State in a phased manner. An average of around 200 students are mentored at each ATL. Of the 10,000 ATLs across the country, 20 are located in Visakhapatnam and 700 in Andhra Pradesh, he said while adding that the ATLs are part of Atal Innovation Mission (AIM) set up by NITI Aayog with an objective to create and encourage an environment of innovation and entrepreneurship among the school students.
The SSV school’s ATL in-charge P.D.L.N. Srinivasa Rao said, “This will be a great opportunity for all of us. The students got this opportunity because of their active performance in tinkering activities ranging from basic electronics, IoT, robotics, cultivation, astronomy to artistic skills like wool crafts.”
The SSV’s Class X student N. Pavani, who is active in coding, said: “Since my father is a mason, I closely observe his work, apart from learning other aspects from our teachers. It helped me a lot to push me towards tinkering activities. It is a great opportunity for me and my co-students.”
Proud moment
Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that it was a matter of pride that students of Visakhapatnam ATL, which is associated with the Institution’s Innovation Council of Andhra University, have been selected for the international hackathon.
“AU’s guidance has helped ATL achieve various recognitions including this global opportunity. We are ready to support schools and students in future,” Prof. Prasad Reddy said.
Help us grow our Positive Movement
We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons.
14 Atal Labs students in Andhra Pradesh selected for global hackathon for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter.
You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and Indian drone-related news.
  

Related
Share it now! 




