New robot from Yaskawa ‘extremely fast,’ space-efficient  | Beverage Industry
Yaskawa Motoman unveiled the GP8L robot, featuring a versatile and extended reach. The six-axis robot was designed for “extremely fast performance in a compact footprint” and to maximize floor space, leading to greater efficiency in production, the company says. The GP8L is best for packaging duties like high-speed bin picking and induction. Additionally, the bot excels in the areas of assembly, dispensing, material handling and machine tending, the company notes. With its slim body style, the GP8L can “delve deeply into tight workspaces,” and its wide wrist motion range “eliminates interference,” it says. The robot has extremely fast axis speeds, with the ability to accelerate quickly, which can improve application flexibility for various industrial functions. Because of its space efficiency, the GP8L requires minimum installation space. It can be placed near other bots and work pieces with a floor, wall, tilt or ceiling mount. The GP8L, like other GP-series robots, is controlled with a YRC1000 controller, which doesn’t require a transformer for input voltages ranging from 380VAC to 480VAC, the company notes. The GP8L has an IP54 body with a payload capacity of 8 kilograms. Its horizontal reach is 1,636 millimeters and its vertical reach is 2,894 millimeters.  Yaskawa America Inc. Motoman Robotics Division, 100 Automation Way, Miamisburg, Ohio 45342; 937/847-6200; www.motoman.com   



  You must have JavaScript enabled to enjoy a limited number of articles over the next 30 days. 
                Sponsored Content is a special paid section where industry companies provide high quality, objective, non-commercial content around topics of interest to the Beverage Industry audience. All Sponsored Content is supplied by the advertising company. Interested in participating in our Sponsored Content section? Contact your local rep. This important industry event is a learning and information sharing experience for warehousing, distribution and fleet management professionals who will have the opportunity to continue to share ideas and network with their industry peers in a safe and productive format as we continue to navigate these challenging times. Copyright ©2022. All Rights Reserved BNP Media. Design, CMS, Hosting & Web Development :: ePublishing 



Plant FocusSupplier News
New robot from Yaskawa ‘extremely fast,’ space-efficient 





December 29, 2022























Yaskawa Motoman unveiled the GP8L robot, featuring a versatile and extended reach. The six-axis robot was designed for “extremely fast performance in a compact footprint” and to maximize floor space, leading to greater efficiency in production, the company says. The GP8L is best for packaging duties like high-speed bin picking and induction. Additionally, the bot excels in the areas of assembly, dispensing, material handling and machine tending, the company notes. With its slim body style, the GP8L can “delve deeply into tight workspaces,” and its wide wrist motion range “eliminates interference,” it says. The robot has extremely fast axis speeds, with the ability to accelerate quickly, which can improve application flexibility for various industrial functions. Because of its space efficiency, the GP8L requires minimum installation space. It can be placed near other bots and work pieces with a floor, wall, tilt or ceiling mount. The GP8L, like other GP-series robots, is controlled with a YRC1000 controller, which doesn’t require a transformer for input voltages ranging from 380VAC to 480VAC, the company notes. The GP8L has an IP54 body with a payload capacity of 8 kilograms. Its horizontal reach is 1,636 millimeters and its vertical reach is 2,894 millimeters. Yaskawa America Inc. Motoman Robotics Division, 100 Automation Way, Miamisburg, Ohio 45342; 937/847-6200; www.motoman.com 


KEYWORDS:  robotics


Share This Story














































      You must login or register in order to post a comment.
  






Report Abusive Comment

Thank you for helping us to improve our forums. Is this comment offensive? Please tell us why.



 



 Sponsored byApplied Food SciencesThe Next Move in Organic Vitamin C Sponsored byRyson International, Inc.Vertical Conveying with Spiral Conveyors Adds more Advantages and Line Flexibility than Meets the Eye Sponsored byApplied Food SciencesFive Functional Beverage Trends in 2022 




Impact on Food and Beverage Innovation - Coronavirus (COVID-19) Case Study

 Yaskawa introduces new MotoMini robotSee More New Delta robot from ABB fastest for lightweight product picking and packingSee More New controllers from ABB improve performanceSee More The NEW Launch Plan: 152 Tips, Tactics and Trends from the Most Memorable New Products Optimizing Social Media from a B2B Perspective April 27, 2022Tethered Closure Adoption Is Rising Fast: Explore the Latest Examples, Tech, and Tips for SuccessOn Demand Adopted by globally recognized brands, tethered closures are in widespread production across beverage markets around the world ― with many more brand owners currently in the process of adopting these closure solutions. 
 Yaskawa America Inc.Yaskawa Motoman's integrated packaging solutions are designed specifically around industry-specific requirements and are accompanied by application enabling software and vision capabilities. Our robotic packaging systems bring ease of use, speed and flexibility to help you meet the demands of today’s beverage marketplace. Koenig & Bauer Kammann (US)Koenig & Bauer Kammann provides innovative, precision-based decorating equipment for direct printing on three-dimensional containers such as bottles, cans and jars. Its product line ranges from high output Digital Printing Machines to Screen Printing machines. Koenig and Bauer Kammann designs and builds extremely flexible multi functional machines capable of screen printing, hot foil stamping, labeling and or digital printing.


