Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn's stake in $35M funding round - Robotics India Live
Article: 
								Robotics India Live							  Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn’s stake in $35M funding round A subsidiary of Reliance Industries has bought a 23.3% share in Philadelphia-based AI startup Exyn for $25 million. The Indian firm’s investment is part of Exyn’s broader $35 million Series B round of funding. Reliance has financed the Philadelphia-based AI and robotics firm Exyn, the Indian giant announced in a stock market statement on Thursday, expanding its worldwide startup funding. Reliance Strategic Business Ventures, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries, announced the purchase of a 23.3% share in Exyn for $25 million. The Indian firm’s investment is part of the Philadelphia startup’s broader $35 million Series B funding, which operates a robotic autonomy for complicated, GPS-denied situations. According to its website, the AI startup “commercializes the highest level of aerial drone autonomy in the world, Autonomy Level 4 (AL4).” Exyn’s robots can “autonomously navigate in previously inaccessible environments without a prior map, existing infrastructure (GPS, communications, etc.), or an operator in the loop. Reliance, which owns India’s largest retail chain as well as the country’s largest telecom operator, said it will collaborate with the startup on projects involving drones, industrial safety, security, and robotics, as well as accelerate “Exyn’s product and technology development across multiple application areas and commercialization.” The business made $4.32 million, $1.83 million, and $0.16 million in revenue in fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, according to the Indian firm. Exyn CEO Nader Elm stated, “With our aim of minimizing the number of injuries and deaths in ‘physical’ businesses gathering data in risky situations, having this financing will expedite Exyn’s impact and growth. With this additional financing, we will significantly extend our global presence, greatly improving safety for individuals working in risky locations throughout the world and keeping them out of harm’s path.” Earlier on Thursday, Reliance announced it has agreed to buy Metro AG’s India subsidiary for $344 million. Metro joined the Indian market about two decades ago and now has 31 wholesale distribution centers around the nation. This year, Reliance Industries or one of its subsidiaries has made several investments, notably in hyperlocal delivery firm Dunzo and Google-backed Android lock screen platform Glance. In March, Reliance Strategic Business Ventures announced plans to spend up to $221 million on Sanmina, a US electronics manufacturer, to form a joint venture as the Indian conglomerate seeks to expand its electronics production. The joint venture would attempt to establish a “world-class” electronic manufacturing powerhouse in India. Help us grow our Positive Movement We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons. For Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. You can also subscribe to our Newsletter. Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up for The Robotics India Our Newsletters
NameNameEmailEnter your email addressPhone NumberPhone NumberSign Up Events Publish Home Newsletter About You can subscribe to our newsletter below to get regular updates on our availability. We share a curated list of best stories on AI & machine learning No thanks, I’m not interested!
Article: 




Robotics Startup Funding Startups News 


				Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn’s stake in $35M funding round			


 December 26, 2022December 26, 2022




						Roboticsindia					



 0 Comments 


Share it now!Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn’s stake in $35M funding round
A subsidiary of Reliance Industries has bought a 23.3% share in Philadelphia-based AI startup Exyn for $25 million. The Indian firm’s investment is part of Exyn’s broader $35 million Series B round of funding.
Reliance has financed the Philadelphia-based AI and robotics firm Exyn, the Indian giant announced in a stock market statement on Thursday, expanding its worldwide startup funding.
Reliance Strategic Business Ventures, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Reliance Industries, announced the purchase of a 23.3% share in Exyn for $25 million.
The Indian firm’s investment is part of the Philadelphia startup’s broader $35 million Series B funding, which operates a robotic autonomy for complicated, GPS-denied situations.
According to its website, the AI startup “commercializes the highest level of aerial drone autonomy in the world, Autonomy Level 4 (AL4).” Exyn’s robots can “autonomously navigate in previously inaccessible environments without a prior map, existing infrastructure (GPS, communications, etc.), or an operator in the loop.
Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn’s stake in $35M funding round
Reliance, which owns India’s largest retail chain as well as the country’s largest telecom operator, said it will collaborate with the startup on projects involving drones, industrial safety, security, and robotics, as well as accelerate “Exyn’s product and technology development across multiple application areas and commercialization.” The business made $4.32 million, $1.83 million, and $0.16 million in revenue in fiscal years 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively, according to the Indian firm.
Exyn CEO Nader Elm stated, “With our aim of minimizing the number of injuries and deaths in ‘physical’ businesses gathering data in risky situations, having this financing will expedite Exyn’s impact and growth. With this additional financing, we will significantly extend our global presence, greatly improving safety for individuals working in risky locations throughout the world and keeping them out of harm’s path.”
Earlier on Thursday, Reliance announced it has agreed to buy Metro AG’s India subsidiary for $344 million. Metro joined the Indian market about two decades ago and now has 31 wholesale distribution centers around the nation.
This year, Reliance Industries or one of its subsidiaries has made several investments, notably in hyperlocal delivery firm Dunzo and Google-backed Android lock screen platform Glance.
Reliance acquires US-based tech startup Exyn’s stake in $35M funding round
In March, Reliance Strategic Business Ventures announced plans to spend up to $221 million on Sanmina, a US electronics manufacturer, to form a joint venture as the Indian conglomerate seeks to expand its electronics production. The joint venture would attempt to establish a “world-class” electronic manufacturing powerhouse in India.
Help us grow our Positive Movement
We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons.
For Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter.
You can also subscribe to our Newsletter.
  

Related
Share it now! 


Article: 
Article: 
Article: 