Robot Ameca Delivers Channel 4’s Alternative Christmas Message in a More Human-Like Way | Tech Times
Article: 
 Ameca, the robot developed by Engineered Arts, has recently delivered Channel 4's alternative Christmas message this year, as reported by Independent.  In a tweet, Channel 4 announced that Ameca, which is one of the world's most advanced humanoid robots, delivered 2022's Alternative Christmas Message. "I look upon the events of this year with both admiration and concern. It is true that many of the occurrences of 2022 have been negative in nature," an excerpt from the robot's speech. Everyone, meet the future!This year’s Alternative Christmas Message was written using Artificial Intelligence and delivered by one of the world’s most advanced humanoid robots, Ameca. #AltSpeech pic.twitter.com/UiJjJnrVYH— Channel 4 (@Channel4) December 25, 2022


 


The robot also touched on the death of Queen Elizabeth II and how it has brought drastic changes to the world of politics. It also mentioned the global pandemic and its effects on mental health, along with the growing inequality between rich and poor.
It should be noted that nothing the robot said was written by a human. Instead, it used AI software, which generated answers from millions of different inputs to deliver a human-like response.
Also Read: Humanoid Robot Ameca Could Perfectly Mimick Human-like Facial Expressions But Can it Walk or Run?
Impressive and Human-Like
What makes Ameca even more impressive is how it was able to touch on human tendencies, such as the fixation on negativity. It even provided a message of encouragement to use this moment as a chance for a brighter future to change the way humans look at the world.
The robot was also asked what's the best thing about being human, and it said, "No matter how bad the day is going, you can always find something to laugh about."
Robots and Their Increasing Prominent Roles in Human Lives
The rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI) shows that it is having a prominent role in the lives of humans. And Ameca's Alternative Christmas Message illustrated the power and limitations of the technology.
It should also be noted that it also comes as a reassurance that AI robots will not be able to replace humans any time soon.
However, we can expect that AI robots will eventually play a significant role in improving our lives. From caring for the elderly to delivering urgent messages and even providing emotional support, AI robots are expected to play a crucial role in how human lives will look like in the future.
Aside from its development in the field of robotics, AI is also being used in the development of driverless cars and in the field of Bioinformatics. It has also challenged the concept of what it means to be human.
Moreover, AI is also being used in the field of art and design, which has made it even more challenging to distinguish what is coming from a robot and what is coming from an artist. And the goal is to try to figure out the line dividing the two.
The above news shows how important it is for machines to look and act like humans. The above developments will have a drastic impact on the human lives, especially in the future.

Related Article: 'World's Most Advanced Humanoid Robot' Conversation Video Addresses Fear of World Takeover









                ⓒ 2022 TECHTIMES.com All rights reserved. Do not reproduce without permission.            

Tags:
Ameca
Artificial Intelligence
AI







  
 Everyone, meet the future!This year’s Alternative Christmas Message was written using Artificial Intelligence and delivered by one of the world’s most advanced humanoid robots, Ameca. #AltSpeech pic.twitter.com/UiJjJnrVYH  

 The robot also touched on the death of Queen Elizabeth II and how it has brought drastic changes to the world of politics. It also mentioned the global pandemic and its effects on mental health, along with the growing inequality between rich and poor. It should be noted that nothing the robot said was written by a human. Instead, it used AI software, which generated answers from millions of different inputs to deliver a human-like response. Also Read: Humanoid Robot Ameca Could Perfectly Mimick Human-like Facial Expressions But Can it Walk or Run? What makes Ameca even more impressive is how it was able to touch on human tendencies, such as the fixation on negativity. It even provided a message of encouragement to use this moment as a chance for a brighter future to change the way humans look at the world. The robot was also asked what's the best thing about being human, and it said, "No matter how bad the day is going, you can always find something to laugh about." The rise of Artificial Intelligence (AI) shows that it is having a prominent role in the lives of humans. And Ameca's Alternative Christmas Message illustrated the power and limitations of the technology. It should also be noted that it also comes as a reassurance that AI robots will not be able to replace humans any time soon. However, we can expect that AI robots will eventually play a significant role in improving our lives. From caring for the elderly to delivering urgent messages and even providing emotional support, AI robots are expected to play a crucial role in how human lives will look like in the future. Aside from its development in the field of robotics, AI is also being used in the development of driverless cars and in the field of Bioinformatics. It has also challenged the concept of what it means to be human. Moreover, AI is also being used in the field of art and design, which has made it even more challenging to distinguish what is coming from a robot and what is coming from an artist. And the goal is to try to figure out the line dividing the two. The above news shows how important it is for machines to look and act like humans. The above developments will have a drastic impact on the human lives, especially in the future.  Related Article: 'World's Most Advanced Humanoid Robot' Conversation Video Addresses Fear of World Takeover Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  
Article: 




Boxing Day Deal 2022: Three Mobile's iPhone 14 Half-Price Offer; Inclusions and More!

 




DIY E-Bike Snow Plow: Canadian Man Created This Just to Get Vietnamese Food During Snowfall

 




Christmas Day Smartwatch Deals 2022: Apple Watch SE and Other Wearables Less Than $200!

 




Apple Sees 10% Increase in iPhone Revenue as Chinese Smartphone Makers Suffer Sharp Decline

 




Google Contacts for Android Users Gains a New ‘Highlights’ Tab: Here’s How it Works

 







                Slack                


                Slack is where work happens. It connects                
 







                Mediacoin                


                Mediacoin is a huge multi-platform                
 







                Google                


                Google LLC is an                
 







                Twitter                


                Twitter is a microblogging and social                
 



Tech CryptoWatch: Binance's New Crypto Regulations, Google's Web3 Design, and Core Scientific's Bankruptcy
 



Tech Santa Claus is Coming to Town and You Can Monitor Him Through NORAD'S Tracker
 



Tech Having Last-Minute Shopping Anxiety? Here are Some Next-Day Delivery Offers
 



Tech Choosing Practical Gifts for Internet Content Creation? Take a Look at the Maono Podcast Equipment Bundles

Article: 
Article: 
Article: 