6 Ways to Beat the Post-Holiday Blues in Illinois
It's that time of year again - the holiday season has come and gone, the decorations are packed away, and life can feel quite dull and boring in Illinois. Instead of falling victim to the post-holiday/winter blues this year, here are ways to beat them! Here's one big truth about me; I HATE New Year's Day. Actually, I hold pretty ill feelings for the whole month of January. Why? Because I love everything about the holiday season and all of the decorations that surround me at home. Every year on January 1st I begin the task of taking down my Christmas decor and I HATE every single minute of it. Every year on January 1st my husband also says to me; "if taking down the decorations makes you so sad, why don't you just leave them up for a bit?" Because, my dear husband, I view it as a "ripping off the band-aid" situation. They all need to come down eventually, so I might as well just get it over with. If you're feeling down and out right now too, don't forget that Illinois is FULL of fun things to do each winter. You can go ice skating outdoors or visit some amazing museums in Chicago. You can go skiing, snow tubing, or snowboarding at one of the hundreds of amazing parks in Illinois. You could treat yourself to a full day of pampering and/or shopping, OR book a quick getaway for you and your sweetie at one of Illinois' most romantic hotels. You could even volunteer at one of Illinois' non-profit organizations or shelters because helping others in need can be a real boost for your mental health. I think you get my point, there are lots of ways for you to beat the winter blues in Illinois, you just need to go out and find them. If none of those fun Illinois options sound appealing or will be enough to get you out of your January-sucks funk, here are 6 more tips you could try from Psychology Today:   So, as we begin 2023, don't let the post-holiday blues get you down. Follow some of these tips and you'll be feeling like your old self in no time. (Hopefully!)  And who knows, you may even find that the winter season has its own unique charms and pleasures that you'll find yourself looking forward to each January.  
6 Ways to Beat the Post-Holiday Blues in IllinoisLil ZimLil ZimPublished: January 2, 2023CanvaShare on FacebookShare on TwitterIt's that time of year again - the holiday season has come and gone, the decorations are packed away, and life can feel quite dull and boring in Illinois. Instead of falling victim to the post-holiday/winter blues this year, here are ways to beat them!Is January the Worst Month Of the Year?Here's one big truth about me; I HATE New Year's Day. Actually, I hold pretty ill feelings for the whole month of January. Why? Because I love everything about the holiday season and all of the decorations that surround me at home.Every year on January 1st I begin the task of taking down my Christmas decor and I HATE every single minute of it. Every year on January 1st my husband also says to me; "if taking down the decorations makes you so sad, why don't you just leave them up for a bit?" Because, my dear husband, I view it as a "ripping off the band-aid" situation. They all need to come down eventually, so I might as well just get it over with.CanvaCanvaloading...Ways to Beat the Post-Holiday BluesIf you're feeling down and out right now too, don't forget that Illinois is FULL of fun things to do each winter. You can go ice skating outdoors or visit some amazing museums in Chicago. You can go skiing, snow tubing, or snowboarding at one of the hundreds of amazing parks in Illinois. You could treat yourself to a full day of pampering and/or shopping, OR book a quick getaway for you and your sweetie at one of Illinois' most romantic hotels. You could even volunteer at one of Illinois' non-profit organizations or shelters because helping others in need can be a real boost for your mental health. I think you get my point, there are lots of ways for you to beat the winter blues in Illinois, you just need to go out and find them.RELATED:  The Best Snow Tubing Hills in WisconsinBest Ways to Beat the Post-Holiday BluesIf none of those fun Illinois options sound appealing or will be enough to get you out of your January-sucks funk, here are 6 more tips you could try from Psychology Today:Call somebody you enjoy - Sometimes picking up the phone and actually talking to (not texting) a friend or family member is all you need to brighten your day.Get outdoors - We all know being outside usually boosts energy levels, so make sure you do exactly that at least once each day.Get some exercise - Exercise always does the body, and mind, good, so make sure you make physical activity a part of your everyday routine.Look forward, not backward - This doesn't have to be coming up with a grand life plan for 2023, just think of something small you'd like to do this year that would bring you joy and then figure out a way to make it happen.Start cooking - Good smells and good food always do wonders for improving moods, so start making something delicious that doesn't remind you of the holidays.Slide-out of the holidays - If you're going to watch tv or movies, make sure you keep away from all the holiday-themed ones you might still find on Netflix, Hulu, etc. You should probably just steer clear of the Hallmark Channel for a little while too. So, as we begin 2023, don't let the post-holiday blues get you down. Follow some of these tips and you'll be feeling like your old self in no time. (Hopefully!)  And who knows, you may even find that the winter season has its own unique charms and pleasures that you'll find yourself looking forward to each January.Illinois Residents Will Use Anything and Everything to Claim DIBS on a Parking SpotThere aren't rules for the items Illinoisans will use to call dibs on a parking spot they shoveled and salted after a big snow system has passed over.20 Fascinating, Unknown Facts About the State of IllinoisFiled Under: Illinois, self care, WinterCategories: Lists, Local NewsCommentsLeave A Comment Do You Know The Legal Duties Of A Landlord In Illinois?Do You Know The Legal Duties Of A Landlord In Illinois? Illinois’ Most or Least Common Zodiac Sign, Are You One Of Them?Illinois’ Most or Least Common Zodiac Sign, Are You One Of Them? The Fascinating History Behind Illinois Ditching the Triangle Pizza SliceThe Fascinating History Behind Illinois Ditching the Triangle Pizza Slice 4 Ways to Get A Free and Safe Ride Home on New Year’s Eve in Illinois4 Ways to Get A Free and Safe Ride Home on New Year’s Eve in Illinois Only True Winter Adventures Are Brave Enough to Drive This Ice Road in WisconsinOnly True Winter Adventures Are Brave Enough to Drive This Ice Road in Wisconsin Get Your Snow Tubing Fix In At These 7 Awesome Hills in WisconsinGet Your Snow Tubing Fix In At These 7 Awesome Hills in Wisconsin One Big Thing You Shouldn’t Do To Your Car When It’s Below Zero in IllinoisOne Big Thing You Shouldn’t Do To Your Car When It’s Below Zero in Illinois 3 Important Things Every Illinois Homeowner Needs to Do Now To Prevent Frozen Pipes3 Important Things Every Illinois Homeowner Needs to Do Now To Prevent Frozen Pipes The Silver Lining to Illinois’ Upcoming Blizzard? More Winter Fun Will Be Opening Soon!The Silver Lining to Illinois’ Upcoming Blizzard? More Winter Fun Will Be Opening Soon!


