When And Where: Upcoming Aviation Events In Early 2023
As the industry bounces back post-pandemic in the new year, exciting exhibitions and conferences are set in motion across the globe. 2023 is a big year for aviation! With hundreds of aviation, defense, and space conferences and exhibitions lined up, avgeeks around the world are spoiled for choice. Let’s take a look at some of the most significant aviation events that you can attend, coming up from January to March this year: 8th – 12th: AMS Annual Meeting Location: Denver, CO USA Exhibitors from across the United States and abroad will showcase a range of products, publications, and services at the 103rd Annual Meeting of the American Meteorological Society. The program features discussions and lectures covering topics such as weather and climate in aerospace operations. There is also a program for online sessions. 11th: Aviation Management Conference Location: Hoofddorp, The Netherlands Organized by young professionals, the conference themed “The Journey Of Transition: Challenges in hybrid operations” is set to explore the opportunities and challenges in aviation operations leading up to 2035. If you’re interested in finding out about digitalization, sustainability, and growth within the industry, this is one for you! 23rd – 27th: AIAA Science & Technology Forum Location: National Harbor, MD USA The largest event for aerospace research, development, and technology is a must-attend if you’re looking to discover more about our rapidly advancing aviation technology landscape. Pre-forum workshops are open for anyone to attend, participate, and contribute. 27th – 28th: SkyDive The Expo Location: Nottingham, United Kingdom The biggest consumer skydiving event in the world will feature educational talks from some of the biggest names in the sport, along with an exciting exhibition of main manufacturers and gear dealers. This free event is highly recommended for anyone who loves the thrill-seeking sport of skydiving. 8th – 9th: National Aviation Infrastructure Show (NAIS) Location: Moscow, Russia This exhibition is catered to executives and stakeholders involved in Russia’s civil aviation infrastructure. If you don't fall under this category, you're still welcomed to attend. Entry is free as long as you register. If you are curious about topics such as the construction and operation of airports and airfields, ground handling, and aircraft maintenance and repair, you might be interested in giving the exhibition a visit. 23rd – 25th: International Women in Aviation Conference Location: Long Beach, CA USA Women who are passionate about aviation can meet like-minded individuals at this inspiring event that features talks from keynote speakers, professional development seminars, an exhibit hall, education sessions, and scholarship awards. Registration fees include a networking reception, luncheon, and banquet, depending on the entry type you choose. Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today. 23rd – 25th: Soaring Society of America Convention Location: Reno, NV USA Families are invited to this exciting event, where sailplanes, equipment, and much more are on display by over 40 exhibitors. There are also over 50 talks and presentations on soaring. 28th – Mar 5th: AVALON 2023 Location: Geelong, Victoria, Australia Australia’s largest international airshow & exposition is back for another year since its hiatus due to COVID-19. Businesses, defense stakeholders, and aviation enthusiasts alike are invited to attend this event, boasting nearly 3.5 million square feet (320,000 square meters) of exhibition space and hundreds of aircraft on display – both static and in the air. 7th – 9th: World ATM Congress Location: Madrid, Spain The event will have an exhibition hall that is free for public visitors. Here, attendees can marvel at a range of exhibits, including the Expodrónica Pavilion, which features over 50 drone and service displays. Access to all education sessions, workshops, and daily theater programs is also free. 8th: Ecological & Electrical Aviation Conference Location: Helsinki, Finland If you’re an advocate for sustainability and how it’ll shape the future of aviation, here’s where you can watch, listen, and participate in sessions and network with other participants. Breakfast, lunch, and afternoon tea is included in the conference fee. Online participation is also available for those who are unable to attend onsite. 28th – Apr 2nd: Sun ‘N Fun Aerospace Expo Location: Lakeland, FL USA This exhibition covers all things aviation, from home-built and vintage aircraft to military planes and rotorcraft. Not only is there an unimaginable range of static and fly-by aircraft on display, but the event also offers workshops, forums, and fun kid activities. There is even a specially-designed hub for pilots who are flying in – complete with a cafe, storefront for personal and aircraft camping needs, and a tram system. While not open to the general public, here are some noteworthy events that are happening in the first quarter of the year that could drive change in the aviation industry. Jan 30th – Feb 1st: World Cargo Summit 2023 Location: Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates After two successful virtual events in 2021 and 2022, the Summit will take place physically in 2023. Here, business leaders in the air freight industry are set to discuss the opportunities and challenges that the sector will face in the near future. Feb 14th – 16th: Routes Asia 2023 Location: Chiang Mai, Thailand As the only route development event in Asia Pacific, this forum will see key industry players come together to develop network strategies to rebuild routes across the region and drive future market growth. Routes America will also be held in Q1 2023, from March 21st to 23rd in Chicago, IL USA. March 8th – 10th: Airspace World 2023 Location: Geneva, Switzerland Important figures in manned and unmanned aviation will meet at this event to work on the blueprint for the future airspace. Technology and services that can deliver this blueprint will be showcased in a 236,000-square-foot (22,000-square-meter) exhibition. Mar 21st – 23rd: Amsterdam Drone Week: EASA High Level Conference 2023 Location: Amsterdam, The Netherlands High-level decision-makers (including regulatory bodies and industry experts) from all over the world will gather to discuss the implementation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), building an Identity and Access Management (IAM) ecosystem, and implementing U-space, a safe airspace for UAS. There’s something in store for every type of aviation enthusiast this year – with events featuring a wide range of aviation topics such as aircraft displays, sustainability, technology, and the future of the industry. It’s definitely an exciting year ahead! Which events would you want to attend this year? Are there any others that have not been listed here? Let us know in the comments! Source: Hype Aviation Writer - Nicole holds a bachelor's degree in aviation management and has worked in the CEO's office of a major flag carrier. She has written about healthcare, lifestyle, and travel but says that "aviation trumps all else". Based in Australia



 Home Guides When And Where: Upcoming Aviation Events In Early 2023  

When And Where: Upcoming Aviation Events In Early 2023
By
 Nicole Kylie 

Published 1 day ago



As the industry bounces back post-pandemic in the new year, exciting exhibitions and conferences are set in motion across the globe.

         Photo: Avalon Airport  

 

2023 is a big year for aviation! With hundreds of aviation, defense, and space conferences and exhibitions lined up, avgeeks around the world are spoiled for choice. Let’s take a look at some of the most significant aviation events that you can attend, coming up from January to March this year:


 January



8th – 12th: AMS Annual Meeting

Location: Denver, CO USA

Exhibitors from across the United States and abroad will showcase a range of products, publications, and services at the 103rd Annual Meeting of the American Meteorological Society. The program features discussions and lectures covering topics such as weather and climate in aerospace operations. There is also a program for online sessions.
SIMPLEFLYING VIDEO OF THE DAY







11th: Aviation Management Conference

Location: Hoofddorp, The Netherlands

Organized by young professionals, the conference themed “The Journey Of Transition: Challenges in hybrid operations” is set to explore the opportunities and challenges in aviation operations leading up to 2035. If you’re interested in finding out about digitalization, sustainability, and growth within the industry, this is one for you!




23rd – 27th: AIAA Science & Technology Forum

Location: National Harbor, MD USA

The largest event for aerospace research, development, and technology is a must-attend if you’re looking to discover more about our rapidly advancing aviation technology landscape. Pre-forum workshops are open for anyone to attend, participate, and contribute.

27th – 28th: SkyDive The Expo

Location: Nottingham, United Kingdom

The biggest consumer skydiving event in the world will feature educational talks from some of the biggest names in the sport, along with an exciting exhibition of main manufacturers and gear dealers. This free event is highly recommended for anyone who loves the thrill-seeking sport of skydiving.






 February
          

 Photo: Shutterstock 



8th – 9th: National Aviation Infrastructure Show (NAIS)

Location: Moscow, Russia

This exhibition is catered to executives and stakeholders involved in Russia’s civil aviation infrastructure. If you don't fall under this category, you're still welcomed to attend. Entry is free as long as you register. If you are curious about topics such as the construction and operation of airports and airfields, ground handling, and aircraft maintenance and repair, you might be interested in giving the exhibition a visit.

23rd – 25th: International Women in Aviation Conference

Location: Long Beach, CA USA

Women who are passionate about aviation can meet like-minded individuals at this inspiring event that features talks from keynote speakers, professional development seminars, an exhibit hall, education sessions, and scholarship awards. Registration fees include a networking reception, luncheon, and banquet, depending on the entry type you choose.

Get the latest aviation news straight to your inbox: Sign up for our newsletters today. 
23rd – 25th: Soaring Society of America Convention




Location: Reno, NV USA

Families are invited to this exciting event, where sailplanes, equipment, and much more are on display by over 40 exhibitors. There are also over 50 talks and presentations on soaring.




28th – Mar 5th: AVALON 2023

Location: Geelong, Victoria, Australia

Australia’s largest international airshow & exposition is back for another year since its hiatus due to COVID-19. Businesses, defense stakeholders, and aviation enthusiasts alike are invited to attend this event, boasting nearly 3.5 million square feet (320,000 square meters) of exhibition space and hundreds of aircraft on display – both static and in the air.



 March
          

 Photo: Sun 'N Fun Aerospace Expo 



7th – 9th: World ATM Congress

Location: Madrid, Spain

The event will have an exhibition hall that is free for public visitors. Here, attendees can marvel at a range of exhibits, including the Expodrónica Pavilion, which features over 50 drone and service displays. Access to all education sessions, workshops, and daily theater programs is also free.




8th: Ecological & Electrical Aviation Conference

Location: Helsinki, Finland

If you’re an advocate for sustainability and how it’ll shape the future of aviation, here’s where you can watch, listen, and participate in sessions and network with other participants. Breakfast, lunch, and afternoon tea is included in the conference fee. Online participation is also available for those who are unable to attend onsite.

28th – Apr 2nd: Sun ‘N Fun Aerospace Expo

Location: Lakeland, FL USA

This exhibition covers all things aviation, from home-built and vintage aircraft to military planes and rotorcraft. Not only is there an unimaginable range of static and fly-by aircraft on display, but the event also offers workshops, forums, and fun kid activities. There is even a specially-designed hub for pilots who are flying in – complete with a cafe, storefront for personal and aircraft camping needs, and a tram system.



 Good-to-know events
While not open to the general public, here are some noteworthy events that are happening in the first quarter of the year that could drive change in the aviation industry.




         Photo: Amsterdam Drone Week  



Jan 30th – Feb 1st: World Cargo Summit 2023

Location: Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates

After two successful virtual events in 2021 and 2022, the Summit will take place physically in 2023. Here, business leaders in the air freight industry are set to discuss the opportunities and challenges that the sector will face in the near future.

Feb 14th – 16th: Routes Asia 2023

Location: Chiang Mai, Thailand

As the only route development event in Asia Pacific, this forum will see key industry players come together to develop network strategies to rebuild routes across the region and drive future market growth. Routes America will also be held in Q1 2023, from March 21st to 23rd in Chicago, IL USA.




March 8th – 10th: Airspace World 2023

Location: Geneva, Switzerland

Important figures in manned and unmanned aviation will meet at this event to work on the blueprint for the future airspace. Technology and services that can deliver this blueprint will be showcased in a 236,000-square-foot (22,000-square-meter) exhibition.




Mar 21st – 23rd: Amsterdam Drone Week: EASA High Level Conference 2023

Location: Amsterdam, The Netherlands

High-level decision-makers (including regulatory bodies and industry experts) from all over the world will gather to discuss the implementation of Unmanned Aircraft Systems (UAS), building an Identity and Access Management (IAM) ecosystem, and implementing U-space, a safe airspace for UAS.

There’s something in store for every type of aviation enthusiast this year – with events featuring a wide range of aviation topics such as aircraft displays, sustainability, technology, and the future of the industry. It’s definitely an exciting year ahead!

Which events would you want to attend this year? Are there any others that have not been listed here? Let us know in the comments!

Source: Hype Aviation








Subscribe to our newsletter
                





Comments




Share



Tweet



Share



Share



Share




Copy




Email




Share







Share



Tweet



Share



Share



Share




Copy




Email





Link copied to clipboard




Related Topics

Worldwide
Guides
exhibition
expo
aviation conference
Aviation
aviation event
virtual event

 


About The Author


Nicole Kylie
                    
(40 Articles Published)





Writer - Nicole holds a bachelor's degree in aviation management and has worked in the CEO's office of a major flag carrier. She has written about healthcare, lifestyle, and travel but says that "aviation trumps all else". Based in Australia









Close






















Trending Now



















Turkish Airlines Reveals 28 Cities It Wants To Target




















Why Don't Planes Use Reverse Thrust To Push Back?




















The Best Bags To Fit Various Airlines' Hand Luggage Allowances







 


 






Trending Now



















Turkish Airlines Reveals 28 Cities It Wants To Target




















Why Don't Planes Use Reverse Thrust To Push Back?




















The Best Bags To Fit Various Airlines' Hand Luggage Allowances




 
















Turkish Airlines Reveals 28 Cities It Wants To Target


 
















Why Don't Planes Use Reverse Thrust To Push Back?


 
















The Best Bags To Fit Various Airlines' Hand Luggage Allowances





