Yangpu Riverside Public Space / Da landscape | ArchDaily

Home
 
Projects
 
Products
 
Folders
 
Feed
  + 42 Text description provided by the architects. The 12th Cotton Mill in the southern section of Yangpu Riverfront is the first plot to be developed in the 5.5km shoreline, which completed its transformation from industrial to commercial use 20 years ago. Unfortunately, the earlier development strategy did not preserve any historical relics，leaving a wasteland. In the context of the connection of the Huangpu River waterfront public space, the design team focused on addressing the dual challenges updating the flood control system and the echoing historical memory.Save this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Chill ShineThe site was originally the Dakang Yarn Mill (1912) founded by Japanese companies, and then transformed into the state-owned Shanghai 12th Cotton Mill. Historically, factories turned plants (cotton) into textiles that people can use. Now the factory has been turned back into a green plant space that people can use, continuing the connection between this site and people’s lives.Save this picture!original factorySave this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Chill ShineThe site is characterized by two textures：the diagonal line representing the original factory and the horizontal line representing the walk flow along the river. The design plan combines the two textures with the concept of "weaving", combined with the newly constructed flood control system to replace more green spaces, forming a continuous riverside tree-lined pedestrian network.Save this picture!analysis diagramSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinAs the only shoreline in the southern section of the Yangpu Riverside without high-piled wharves, good soil planting conditions of the site have brought plenty of greenery and natural features. The playground and recreational facilities set in the greenery create a diverse riverside experience. Khaki water-permeable paving materials are used on the ground, and the color and texture are very close to the real soil, providing a comfortable walking experience and feeling. It also responded to the glorious history of the 12th Cotton Mill , which produced industry-leading high-quality khakis and was known as the "Khaki King".Save this picture!analysis diagramSave this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinThe unpowered amusement equipment space set in combination with the slow-moving system continues the weaving theme, which is suitable for children of different ages. Combining with the topography of the flood control system to form a highly engaging and interesting activity experience.Save this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinThe Shaquan Square in the middle part uses the height difference to form stone steps and pools that fall down layer by layer, forming a waterscape axis connecting the riverside and the future development land. The simulated yarn spinning machine by the pool can control the height of the fountain. The waterwheel amusement device is designed with textile machine parts as the prototype in the pool, which attracts the public's interactive participation in an interesting way.Save this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinBefore the renovation, Twelve Cotton's riverside space basically had no historical relics. Therefore, the focus of the public space is more on human experience and activities, and echoes historical clues. In the old factory site closest to the Huangpu River, a green, fun and playable space is created, giving the industrial rust belt a relaxed and soft color.Save this picture!© Xiaohui Jin Text description provided by the architects. The 12th Cotton Mill in the southern section of Yangpu Riverfront is the first plot to be developed in the 5.5km shoreline, which completed its transformation from industrial to commercial use 20 years ago. Unfortunately, the earlier development strategy did not preserve any historical relics，leaving a wasteland. In the context of the connection of the Huangpu River waterfront public space, the design team focused on addressing the dual challenges updating the flood control system and the echoing historical memory. Text description provided by the architects. The 12th Cotton Mill in the southern section of Yangpu Riverfront is the first plot to be developed in the 5.5km shoreline, which completed its transformation from industrial to commercial use 20 years ago. Unfortunately, the earlier development strategy did not preserve any historical relics，leaving a wasteland. In the context of the connection of the Huangpu River waterfront public space, the design team focused on addressing the dual challenges updating the flood control system and the echoing historical memory. The site was originally the Dakang Yarn Mill (1912) founded by Japanese companies, and then transformed into the state-owned Shanghai 12th Cotton Mill. Historically, factories turned plants (cotton) into textiles that people can use. Now the factory has been turned back into a green plant space that people can use, continuing the connection between this site and people’s lives. The site was originally the Dakang Yarn Mill (1912) founded by Japanese companies, and then transformed into the state-owned Shanghai 12th Cotton Mill. Historically, factories turned plants (cotton) into textiles that people can use. Now the factory has been turned back into a green plant space that people can use, continuing the connection between this site and people’s lives. The site is characterized by two textures：the diagonal line representing the original factory and the horizontal line representing the walk flow along the river. The design plan combines the two textures with the concept of "weaving", combined with the newly constructed flood control system to replace more green spaces, forming a continuous riverside tree-lined pedestrian network. The site is characterized by two textures：the diagonal line representing the original factory and the horizontal line representing the walk flow along the river. The design plan combines the two textures with the concept of "weaving", combined with the newly constructed flood control system to replace more green spaces, forming a continuous riverside tree-lined pedestrian network. As the only shoreline in the southern section of the Yangpu Riverside without high-piled wharves, good soil planting conditions of the site have brought plenty of greenery and natural features. The playground and recreational facilities set in the greenery create a diverse riverside experience. Khaki water-permeable paving materials are used on the ground, and the color and texture are very close to the real soil, providing a comfortable walking experience and feeling. It also responded to the glorious history of the 12th Cotton Mill , which produced industry-leading high-quality khakis and was known as the "Khaki King". As the only shoreline in the southern section of the Yangpu Riverside without high-piled wharves, good soil planting conditions of the site have brought plenty of greenery and natural features. The playground and recreational facilities set in the greenery create a diverse riverside experience. Khaki water-permeable paving materials are used on the ground, and the color and texture are very close to the real soil, providing a comfortable walking experience and feeling. It also responded to the glorious history of the 12th Cotton Mill , which produced industry-leading high-quality khakis and was known as the "Khaki King". The unpowered amusement equipment space set in combination with the slow-moving system continues the weaving theme, which is suitable for children of different ages. Combining with the topography of the flood control system to form a highly engaging and interesting activity experience. The unpowered amusement equipment space set in combination with the slow-moving system continues the weaving theme, which is suitable for children of different ages. Combining with the topography of the flood control system to form a highly engaging and interesting activity experience. The Shaquan Square in the middle part uses the height difference to form stone steps and pools that fall down layer by layer, forming a waterscape axis connecting the riverside and the future development land. The simulated yarn spinning machine by the pool can control the height of the fountain. The waterwheel amusement device is designed with textile machine parts as the prototype in the pool, which attracts the public's interactive participation in an interesting way. The Shaquan Square in the middle part uses the height difference to form stone steps and pools that fall down layer by layer, forming a waterscape axis connecting the riverside and the future development land. The simulated yarn spinning machine by the pool can control the height of the fountain. The waterwheel amusement device is designed with textile machine parts as the prototype in the pool, which attracts the public's interactive participation in an interesting way. Before the renovation, Twelve Cotton's riverside space basically had no historical relics. Therefore, the focus of the public space is more on human experience and activities, and echoes historical clues. In the old factory site closest to the Huangpu River, a green, fun and playable space is created, giving the industrial rust belt a relaxed and soft color. Before the renovation, Twelve Cotton's riverside space basically had no historical relics. Therefore, the focus of the public space is more on human experience and activities, and echoes historical clues. In the old factory site closest to the Huangpu River, a green, fun and playable space is created, giving the industrial rust belt a relaxed and soft color. You'll now receive updates based on what you follow! Personalize your stream and start following your favorite authors, offices and users.









Save this picture!© Xiaohui Jin+ 42
Curated by 韩双羽 - HAN Shuangyu

Share





ShareFacebookTwitterMailPinterestWhatsappOrhttps://www.archdaily.com/985238/yangpu-riverside-public-space-da-landscape

Clipboard









"COPY"










CopyPark•Shanghai, China







Landscape Architects: 
Da landscape
Area
Area of this architecture project
























 Area : 
 12600 m²

Year
Completion year of this architecture project 


















            Year : 
          


          2019
        


Photographs







Photographs :Xiaohui Jin, Chill Shine 






                Lead Architect :
              

                Xiaoqing Yang
              

Design Team : Xiangyang Zhang, Junjie Wang, Jie Sun, Xianzhi Zhang, Yanfei ZhangClients : Yangpu Riverside public space（Shanghai No.12 cotton mill）City : ShanghaiCountry : ChinaDid you collaborate on this project?More SpecsLess Specs
Save this picture!© Chill ShineText description provided by the architects. The 12th Cotton Mill in the southern section of Yangpu Riverfront is the first plot to be developed in the 5.5km shoreline, which completed its transformation from industrial to commercial use 20 years ago. Unfortunately, the earlier development strategy did not preserve any historical relics，leaving a wasteland. In the context of the connection of the Huangpu River waterfront public space, the design team focused on addressing the dual challenges updating the flood control system and the echoing historical memory.Save this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Chill ShineThe site was originally the Dakang Yarn Mill (1912) founded by Japanese companies, and then transformed into the state-owned Shanghai 12th Cotton Mill. Historically, factories turned plants (cotton) into textiles that people can use. Now the factory has been turned back into a green plant space that people can use, continuing the connection between this site and people’s lives.Save this picture!original factorySave this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Chill ShineThe site is characterized by two textures：the diagonal line representing the original factory and the horizontal line representing the walk flow along the river. The design plan combines the two textures with the concept of "weaving", combined with the newly constructed flood control system to replace more green spaces, forming a continuous riverside tree-lined pedestrian network.Save this picture!analysis diagramSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinAs the only shoreline in the southern section of the Yangpu Riverside without high-piled wharves, good soil planting conditions of the site have brought plenty of greenery and natural features. The playground and recreational facilities set in the greenery create a diverse riverside experience. Khaki water-permeable paving materials are used on the ground, and the color and texture are very close to the real soil, providing a comfortable walking experience and feeling. It also responded to the glorious history of the 12th Cotton Mill , which produced industry-leading high-quality khakis and was known as the "Khaki King".Save this picture!analysis diagramSave this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinThe unpowered amusement equipment space set in combination with the slow-moving system continues the weaving theme, which is suitable for children of different ages. Combining with the topography of the flood control system to form a highly engaging and interesting activity experience.Save this picture!© Chill ShineSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinThe Shaquan Square in the middle part uses the height difference to form stone steps and pools that fall down layer by layer, forming a waterscape axis connecting the riverside and the future development land. The simulated yarn spinning machine by the pool can control the height of the fountain. The waterwheel amusement device is designed with textile machine parts as the prototype in the pool, which attracts the public's interactive participation in an interesting way.Save this picture!© Xiaohui JinSave this picture!© Xiaohui JinBefore the renovation, Twelve Cotton's riverside space basically had no historical relics. Therefore, the focus of the public space is more on human experience and activities, and echoes historical clues. In the old factory site closest to the Huangpu River, a green, fun and playable space is created, giving the industrial rust belt a relaxed and soft color.Save this picture!© Xiaohui Jin


