Microsoft collaborates with Isro to support space-tech startups in India - India Today
By India Today Web Desk: Weeks after India successfully tested the first privately developed rocket, Microsoft joined hands with the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) to support space-tech startups in the country. A Memorandum of Understanding was signed on Thursday to empower space tech start-ups across the country. Under the new agreement, space tech startups identified by Isro will be onboarded onto the Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub platform, which supports startups at every stage of their journey from idea to a unicorn. The opportunity will provide the startup founders with free access to the tech tools and resources they need to build and run their businesses. "Isro’s collaboration with Microsoft will greatly benefit space tech startups in their analysis and processing of vast amounts of satellite data for various applications, using cutting-edge methods like AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning. The Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub is a useful platform for bringing together startups and providers of technology solutions to support the national space technology ecosystem. We are pleased to work together to assist and support entrepreneurs, to, in turn, benefit the Indian economy as a whole,” Isro chief S Somnath, said in a statement. Also Read | What is atmospheric river that is driving heavy rains, floods to US? The collaboration will provide technical support to build and scale on Azure, best-in-class developer and productivity tools including GitHub Enterprise, Visual Studio Enterprise, and Microsoft 365, and access to smart analytics with Power BI and Dynamics 365. “Space tech startups in India are playing a significant role in advancing the country’s space capabilities with the power of technology. We are pleased to collaborate with ISRO to accelerate this transformation of what’s possible in space. Through our technology tools, platforms, and mentorship opportunities, we are deeply committed to empowering space tech startups in the country to drive cutting-edge innovation and accelerate scientific discovery,” Anant Maheshwari, President, of Microsoft India, added.  Also Read | SpaceX launches 114 satellites in first mission of 2023 As part of the agreement, Microsoft will also provide mentoring support to space tech entrepreneurs in areas ranging from space engineering to cloud technologies, product and design, fundraising, and sales and marketing. The startups will also get access to Microsoft Learn for tailored startup-centric training content and programs to help them build connections with the industry and potential customers. Meanwhile, leadership sessions will also be organised sessions for startups with space industry experts. Also Read | 2023 is going to be about bigger, bolder, braver missions from India  Add IndiaToday to Home Screen



