Big Boost To Indian Space Tech Startups! Microsoft Collabs With ISRO. Details Here
 

















Published: January 5, 2023 1:51 PM IST  


 

              By India.com Business Desk 





 | Edited by  Sankunni K 





 New Delhi: On a day when Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella held a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO), the premiere space agency of India and global software giant Microsoft on Thursday announced a collaboration to fuel the growth of space technology startups in the country.
Also Read: 
State-Sponsored Hackers Attacking Critical Energy Infrastructure In India, Tata Power Hit: MicrosoftMicrosoft Teams Brings In New Sign Language View Feature. Here Is How It WorksMicrosoft Rolls Out New Feature To MFA App, Prevents Spam Attacks  “Thank you @narendramodi for an insightful meeting. It’s inspiring to see the government’s deep focus on sustainable and inclusive economic growth led by digital transformation and we’re looking forward to helping India realize the Digital India vision and be a light for the world”, Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella tweeted after meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Thank you @narendramodi for an insightful meeting. It’s inspiring to see the government’s deep focus on sustainable and inclusive economic growth led by digital transformation and we’re looking forward to helping India realize the Digital India vision and be a light for the world pic.twitter.com/xTDN9E9VdK — Satya Nadella (@satyanadella) January 5, 2023  As per the agreements of the collaboration, the space tech startups identified by ISRO will be on-boarded onto the ‘Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub’ platform, which supports startups at every stage of their journey from idea to unicorn. “ISRO’s collaboration with Microsoft will greatly benefit space tech startups in their analysis and processing of vast amounts of satellite data for various applications, using cutting-edge methods like AI, Machine Learning, and Deep Learning,” said S Somanath, Chairman, ISRO. Space-tech startups in India will be able to access tech tools and resources they need to build and run their business free of cost through ‘Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub’. This also means technical support to build and scale on Azure, best-in-class developer and productivity tools including GitHub Enterprise, Visual Studio Enterprise and Microsoft 365 and access to smart analytics with Power BI and Dynamics 365. “Through our technology tools, platforms and mentorship opportunities, we are deeply committed to empowering space tech startups in the country to drive cutting edge innovation and accelerate scientific discovery,” said Anant Maheshwari, President, Microsoft India. Apart from these benefits, through this collaboration, Microsoft will also provide mentoring support to space tech entrepreneurs in areas ranging from space engineering to cloud technologies, product and design, fundraising and sales and marketing. In addition, founders will have access to Microsoft Learn for tailored startup centric training content and programmes to help them build connections with the industry and potential customers, said the tech giant. Microsoft and ISRO will also jointly organise knowledge sharing and thought leadership sessions for the startups with space industry experts. The government has opened up the space sector for private players. The country has more than 100 active startups in the spacetech sector. (With IANS inputs.) For breaking news and live news updates, like us on Facebook or follow us on Twitter and Instagram. Read more on Latest
                        Business News on India.com.
                  

















Published Date: January 5, 2023 1:51 PM IST  Copyright ©2023. INDIADOTCOM DIGITAL PRIVATE LIMITED. All Rights Reserved.



  


Big Boost To Indian Space Tech Startups! Microsoft Collabs With ISRO. Details Here


  


  


Business News Live: Bear Run Continues! Sensex Down Over 400 Points, Nifty Slips Below 18K


  


  


India's Auto Sales Fell By 5% YoY In December 2022: FADA. Check Full Report Here


  


  


Layoff Continues: This Software Company Sacks Over 7,000 Employees. Deets Here


  


  


Amazon To Sack Over 18,000 Employees, Several Teams To Be Impacted, Says CEO


  


  


Big Boost To Indian Space Tech Startups! Microsoft Collabs With ISRO. Details Here


  


  


State-Sponsored Hackers Attacking Critical Energy Infrastructure In India, Tata Power Hit: Microsoft


  


  


Microsoft Teams Brings In New Sign Language View Feature. Here Is How It Works


  


  


Meta Lays Off More Than 11,000 Employees to Reduce Costs After Drop in Revenue


  


  


Andy Taylor Skips Duran Duran's Rock & Roll Hall Of Fame Moment Due To Stage 4 Metastatic Prostate Cancer


 


