Microsoft and ISRO to fuel growth of space technology startups - InfotechLead
Microsoft and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) announced a collaboration to fuel the growth of space technology startups in the country.

The space tech startups identified by ISRO will be on-boarded onto the Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub platform. ISRO’s collaboration with Microsoft will benefit space tech startups in their analysis and processing of vast amounts of satellite data for various applications, using methods like AI, Machine Learning and Deep Learning, said S Somanath, Chairman, ISRO. Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub will enable space-tech startup founders to enjoy free access to the tech tools, and resources to build and run their business. This includes technical support to build and scale on Microsoft Azure Cloud, developer and productivity tools including GitHub Enterprise, Visual Studio Enterprise and Microsoft 365 and access to smart analytics with Power BI and Dynamics 365. “Through our technology tools, platforms and mentorship opportunities, we are deeply committed to empowering space tech startups in the country to drive cutting edge innovation and accelerate scientific discovery,” said Anant Maheshwari, President, Microsoft India. Microsoft will also provide mentoring support to space tech entrepreneurs in areas ranging from space engineering to cloud technologies, product and design, fundraising and sales and marketing. In addition, founders will have access to Microsoft Learn for tailored startup centric training content and programs to help them build connections with the industry and potential customers. Microsoft and ISRO will also jointly organize knowledge sharing and thought leadership sessions for the startups with space industry experts. The government has opened up the space sector for private players. The country has more than 100 active startups in the space-tech sector. Log in to leave a comment   Hey there! Be sure to subscribe to our daily newsletter if you want more Information Technology news!


Software

Microsoft and ISRO to fuel growth of space technology startups

05/01/2023 



Microsoft and the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) announced a collaboration to fuel the growth of space technology startups in the country.

The space tech startups identified by ISRO will be on-boarded onto the Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub platform.
ISRO’s collaboration with Microsoft will benefit space tech startups in their analysis and processing of vast amounts of satellite data for various applications, using methods like AI, Machine Learning and Deep Learning, said S Somanath, Chairman, ISRO.





Microsoft for Startups Founders Hub will enable space-tech startup founders to enjoy free access to the tech tools, and resources to build and run their business.
This includes technical support to build and scale on Microsoft Azure Cloud, developer and productivity tools including GitHub Enterprise, Visual Studio Enterprise and Microsoft 365 and access to smart analytics with Power BI and Dynamics 365.
“Through our technology tools, platforms and mentorship opportunities, we are deeply committed to empowering space tech startups in the country to drive cutting edge innovation and accelerate scientific discovery,” said Anant Maheshwari, President, Microsoft India.
Microsoft will also provide mentoring support to space tech entrepreneurs in areas ranging from space engineering to cloud technologies, product and design, fundraising and sales and marketing.
In addition, founders will have access to Microsoft Learn for tailored startup centric training content and programs to help them build connections with the industry and potential customers.
Microsoft and ISRO will also jointly organize knowledge sharing and thought leadership sessions for the startups with space industry experts.
The government has opened up the space sector for private players. The country has more than 100 active startups in the space-tech sector.
 



infotech  



