TJHS Students in Fairfax County Launch Satellite from International Space Station – NBC4 Washington
It's a big day for students at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Fairfax County, Virginia: A science project they designed is now in outer space. A satellite built by the young scholars launched from the International Space Station early Thursday morning. The students there are familiar with the mantra "shoot for the stars," and the ones who are part of the space program are constantly brainstorming ways to advance scientific research into the cosmos. Their latest project builds on the thinking of former TJHS students. "What they initially wanted to do was send up a little radio module and test whether that works," said Nikhil K., the project manager for "TJ Reverb." Current students decided to expand upon that question. Their mission allows them to create an improved satellite radio. The hope is that the students will be able to communicate with the space station while the device is in outer space. "Because the radio communicates with a satellite constellation instead of a ground station, we can draw a lot less power than more traditional radios," said Alan H., another student who worked on the project.  The radio they designed and built launched from the ISS on Thursday morning. Their curiosity and dedication has led to NASA partnerships and grants, not to mention an unforgettable experience. "The fact that we're a high school making [the satellite] and sending it into space, is motivational not just for us but for other high schoolers around the country, other groups that are trying to reach this point," said Kareem J., electronics lead for the project. And it's just the beginning of the program, which already has its sights set on the next space mission -- and training the next generation of engineers. "We've really kind of tried to put together a program," said Kristen Kucko, robotics lab director at the school. "So that way high school students can have this opportunity to experience what it's like to work in the aerospace industry before ever getting into the aerospace industry."









Science 



		A Science Project Designed by High School Students in Fairfax County is Now in Outer Space	

			A satellite built by the young scholars launched from the International Space Station early Thursday morning		


					By Dominique Moody, News4 Reporter •

Published December 29, 2022 •
Updated on December 29, 2022 at 6:02 pm 




























NBC Universal, Inc.





It's a big day for students at Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Fairfax County, Virginia: A science project they designed is now in outer space.
A satellite built by the young scholars launched from the International Space Station early Thursday morning.
The students there are familiar with the mantra "shoot for the stars," and the ones who are part of the space program are constantly brainstorming ways to advance scientific research into the cosmos.
Their latest project builds on the thinking of former TJHS students.
"What they initially wanted to do was send up a little radio module and test whether that works," said Nikhil K., the project manager for "TJ Reverb."
Current students decided to expand upon that question. Their mission allows them to create an improved satellite radio.
The hope is that the students will be able to communicate with the space station while the device is in outer space.
"Because the radio communicates with a satellite constellation instead of a ground station, we can draw a lot less power than more traditional radios," said Alan H., another student who worked on the project.













Space Exploration

								Dec 20							



								Up, Up and Away in a Balloon to the Stratosphere							













news

								Nov 11							



								This 37-Year-Old NASA Engineer Is Designing a Spacesuit for Women on the Side: ‘It's Not Just Cool, It's Necessary'							
















								Dec 7							



								NASA's Orion Spacecraft Will Splash Down Off Baja Coast This Weekend. Meet the Team Tasked With Recovering It							





The radio they designed and built launched from the ISS on Thursday morning. Their curiosity and dedication has led to NASA partnerships and grants, not to mention an unforgettable experience.
"The fact that we're a high school making [the satellite] and sending it into space, is motivational not just for us but for other high schoolers around the country, other groups that are trying to reach this point," said Kareem J., electronics lead for the project.
And it's just the beginning of the program, which already has its sights set on the next space mission -- and training the next generation of engineers.
"We've really kind of tried to put together a program," said Kristen Kucko, robotics lab director at the school. "So that way high school students can have this opportunity to experience what it's like to work in the aerospace industry before ever getting into the aerospace industry."



This article tagged under:
Sciencespacethomas jefferson high school for science and technologySatellitehigh school students















 









 

Trending Stories

 











									Watch News4 Live								












										D.C.									



									Car Hits 2 People on New York Ave. Near White House								












										Things to Do DC									



									The Weekend Scene: Fireworks, Parties and Concerts for New Year's Eve in DC, Maryland, Virginia								












										news									



									Millennials Bought an Abandoned High School for $100,000 and Turned It Into a 31-Unit Apartment Building — Take a Look Inside								









 

Weather Forecast




 


 





