
    Usage Of AI, Robotics & Data Analytics Increasing In Textile...
    | MENAFN.COM

																Forgot  Username or Password
   Date (MENAFN- KNN India) 
Usage of AI, robotics & data analytics increasing in textile industry: ITF   New Delhi, Dec 29 (KNN)  The textile machinery manufacturers nowadays have increased the usage of technology such as artificial intelligence, robotics, and data analytics, said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF).
ITF on Wednesday organised an event for textile professionals on use of modern technology in spinning.
    
Addressing the occasion, Dhamodharan said,“the focus now among textile spinning units was on use of less space and energy and achieve high productivity.”
Robotics is getting into machinery on a larger scale and the entire management of the shop floor and monitoring production processes are going digital, he said, adding that automation is increasing at all friction points in the production process.
Dhamodharan pointed out that it is possible to make changes on a daily basis with data available from the machinery and use of artificial intelligence to get better productivity.
As per reports, a total of eight textile machinery manufacturers who had exhibited machinery at ITME 2022 were invited to make presentations about the new technical developments in their machinery.
During the course of the event, a group of young textile entrepreneurs took part in a panel discussion on new technology initiatives.
ITF plans to organise tech talks regularly to share knowledge on the technical developments to make optimum use of the modern machinery by the Industry.   (KNN Bureau)  
MENAFN29122022000155011030ID1105365626   New Delhi, Dec 29 (KNN)  The textile machinery manufacturers nowadays have increased the usage of technology such as artificial intelligence, robotics, and data analytics, said Prabhu Dhamodharan, convenor of Indian Texpreneurs Federation (ITF). ITF on Wednesday organised an event for textile professionals on use of modern technology in spinning.      Addressing the occasion, Dhamodharan said,“the focus now among textile spinning units was on use of less space and energy and achieve high productivity.” Robotics is getting into machinery on a larger scale and the entire management of the shop floor and monitoring production processes are going digital, he said, adding that automation is increasing at all friction points in the production process. Dhamodharan pointed out that it is possible to make changes on a daily basis with data available from the machinery and use of artificial intelligence to get better productivity. As per reports, a total of eight textile machinery manufacturers who had exhibited machinery at ITME 2022 were invited to make presentations about the new technical developments in their machinery. During the course of the event, a group of young textile entrepreneurs took part in a panel discussion on new technology initiatives. ITF plans to organise tech talks regularly to share knowledge on the technical developments to make optimum use of the modern machinery by the Industry.   (KNN Bureau)   MENAFN29122022000155011030ID1105365626 MENAFN29122022000155011030ID1105365626 
Legal Disclaimer: MENAFN provides the information “as is” without warranty of any kind.  We do not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, content, images, videos, licenses, completeness, legality, or reliability of the information contained in this article.   If you have any complaints or copyright issues related to this article, kindly contact the provider above. 
                         Tags Comments Category Date 
Followers    
Likes 
itunes 
App Store 
RSS 



                                                        Daily(English)
                                                




                                                        Daily(Arabic)
                                                




                                                        All()
                                                

  World and Middle East business and financial news, Stocks, Currencies, Market Data, Research, Weather and other data. 
								 Contact Us
									 Click here 
 
Tel:
									+962 6 5690450
								 
                        Copyright © 2000 MENAFN. All rights reserved. 
                        Design & Devleopment by MENAFN

















 




A Dinosaur Embryo Was Found Inside A Fossilized Egg From Over 66 Million ...



 
















 




St Lucia Pleads With The US For Crime Reduction Solutions...



 
















 




Abid Mushtaq Takes 8 In J&K's Miraculous Ranji Win...



 
















 




J&K Bank Unveils Its Wall Calendar  2023...



 
















 




Adani Takes Control Of NDTV...



 
















 




DC Warns Courier Services Against Shipping Psychotropic Substances...



 
















 




Spiritual Music Track 'Qarar Rouvum' Released...



 
















 




Govt Mulls To Extend Contract Of Staff Hired For Covid Care Services...



 
















 




Presence Of Gray Langur Triggers Panic In Sopore...



 
















 




MHA Promotes 38 IPS Officers, 20 To DIG Rank...



 
















 




J&K To Implement Student Assessment & Evaluation Scheme From Next Session...



 
















 




Covid Might Not Go Away But No Major Outbreak Likely In India: Dir SKIMS...






