The “Top Talent” Will Shape the Hybrid Workplace - Allwork.Space
Who decides how hybrid work will take place? In many cases, it won’t be the CEO — it will be the “top talent” of the company.  That’s according to Raj Choudhury, an economist from Harvard Business School.   Throughout history, it has always been the most sought-after job candidates who have shaped what our jobs look like and how work gets done, says Choudhury.  In our current pandemic-era state of flux, it will likely be these influential people who will once again steer the future of work toward their ideal scenario.  Interestingly, this is not just a desire for hybrid work. Instead, it’s about working from wherever they want.  “There are two kinds of companies,” Choudhury said. “One is going to embrace work-from-anywhere, and the second is in denial—I feel those companies will lose their workforce.”   He believes that the “companies that are trying to drag back time will lose some of their best talent, and that dynamic will force these companies to catch up.”  Hybrid work has already cemented itself as the future of work. But if Choudhury is right, we could soon see another shift toward a work environment with even less location dependence.  
Jo is Allwork.Space's Senior Editor for the UK and Europe. Jo has worked within business centre and coworking circles since 2009, researching and contributing written features for numerous industry publications. She reports on the latest market news and delves into local issues with one main objective: to champion the flexible workspace industry and its members.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










74% of Employers Now Offer Hybrid Work Arrangements

 December 29, 2022

 





Japan’s Top Priority For The New Year Is Boosting Employee Wages

 December 28, 2022

 





The Four-Day Workweek Isn’t For Everyone, But Flexibility Is

 December 27, 2022

 





Balance And Stability – What Professionals Want From Their Future Employment

 December 27, 2022




