Concord celebrates completion of engineering, construction building | News | goshennews.com
A steady rain this evening. Showers continuing overnight. Areas of patchy fog developing. Low 36F. Winds NNW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 100%. Rainfall near a quarter of an inch..
                                 A steady rain this evening. Showers continuing overnight. Areas of patchy fog developing. Low 36F. Winds NNW at 5 to 10 mph. Chance of rain 100%. Rainfall near a quarter of an inch.  Updated: December 30, 2022 @ 5:13 pm   Concord High School students offered demonstrations for the public about robotics during the open house event celebrating the completion of the Concord Engineering and Construction Center Dec. 12. ELKHART — A new learning area will provide Concord High School students interested in the engineering, robotics, and construction trades fields a space to learn work readiness skills matching industry demands — and develop skills that will support their future careers. Construction was recently completed on the Concord Engineering and Construction Center, a 10,400-square-foot building located on the west side of Concord High School in an area that was previously used for school bus parking. A community open house and ribbon cutting ceremony took place Dec. 12. The facility includes innovative engineering, robotics and construction trades spaces to support future-ready learning, support the local economy, and prepare students for success. This facility was designed in response to the needs of the local economy, including the desire for students to enter the workforce with industry-ready skills. The project cost was approximately $3.9 million and was paid for through the sale of a bond and will not raise taxes. “We are proud to support this investment that will have a direct impact on our students and their ability to increase their industry-ready skills while still in high school,” Superintendent Dan Funston said. “In conversations with local industry leaders, it is clear that having this facility in place to support student learning will set them on a path to success in whatever career path they choose.” In recent years, student interest in the high school’s construction trades offerings has more than tripled, with more than 500 students enrolled in courses for the fall semester. This increased demand for course offerings has outgrown the existing facility. “We’re thrilled to have so many students interested in career fields that will directly benefit our local community,” Concord High School Principal Seth Molnar said. “There is an excited buzz among our students and staff as we prepare to launch classes here in January, and we know that momentum will continue to grow as more students and families become aware of these incredible learning opportunities.” Courses to be offered in this space include civil engineering, architectural engineering, manufacturing, robotics, design and innovation, and construction trades. Future plans include a competitive robotics program, additional student-designed projects available for purchase by the community, the growth of partnerships with Habitat for Humanity and other local organizations, and work-based learning placement for students with local contractors. Students will begin utilizing the space in January 2023. Concord would like to thank Weigand Construction and TMP Architecture for their partnership on the project.  The National Retail Federation reports that American consumers spend an average of $997.73 on gifts and holiday items each Christmas. But with inflation, consumers are not getting as much for the dollars. How did inflationary prices impact the amount you spent this Christmas? 
                            Sign up now to get our FREE breaking news coverage delivered right to your inbox.
                         First Amendment: Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; or abridging the freedom of speech, or of the press; or the right of the people peaceably to assemble, and to petition the Government for a redress of grievances.












        

        
            Trump's tax returns released after long fight w…



 











        

        
            Jan. 6 takeaways: Final revelations from investigation



 











        

        
            Volkswagen recalls Beetles to replace Takata air bags



 











        

        
            South Korea's unannounced rocket launch causes …



 

























Concord celebrates completion of engineering, construction building




JULIE BEER
Chief of Staff/Director of Communications
Concord Community Schools


            Dec 29, 2022
        

23 hrs ago


























Concord High School students offered demonstrations for the public about robotics during the open house event celebrating the completion of the Concord Engineering and Construction Center Dec. 12.


Photo provided by Julie Beer



















































ELKHART — A new learning area will provide Concord High School students interested in the engineering, robotics, and construction trades fields a space to learn work readiness skills matching industry demands — and develop skills that will support their future careers.Construction was recently completed on the Concord Engineering and Construction Center, a 10,400-square-foot building located on the west side of Concord High School in an area that was previously used for school bus parking. A community open house and ribbon cutting ceremony took place Dec. 12.The facility includes innovative engineering, robotics and construction trades spaces to support future-ready learning, support the local economy, and prepare students for success. This facility was designed in response to the needs of the local economy, including the desire for students to enter the workforce with industry-ready skills.
The project cost was approximately $3.9 million and was paid for through the sale of a bond and will not raise taxes.“We are proud to support this investment that will have a direct impact on our students and their ability to increase their industry-ready skills while still in high school,” Superintendent Dan Funston said. “In conversations with local industry leaders, it is clear that having this facility in place to support student learning will set them on a path to success in whatever career path they choose.”In recent years, student interest in the high school’s construction trades offerings has more than tripled, with more than 500 students enrolled in courses for the fall semester. This increased demand for course offerings has outgrown the existing facility.




“We’re thrilled to have so many students interested in career fields that will directly benefit our local community,” Concord High School Principal Seth Molnar said. “There is an excited buzz among our students and staff as we prepare to launch classes here in January, and we know that momentum will continue to grow as more students and families become aware of these incredible learning opportunities.”Courses to be offered in this space include civil engineering, architectural engineering, manufacturing, robotics, design and innovation, and construction trades.Future plans include a competitive robotics program, additional student-designed projects available for purchase by the community, the growth of partnerships with Habitat for Humanity and other local organizations, and work-based learning placement for students with local contractors.Students will begin utilizing the space in January 2023.Concord would like to thank Weigand Construction and TMP Architecture for their partnership on the project.









React to this story:








Love



0



Funny



0



Wow



0



Sad



0



Angry



0














Tags

Student
 
Trade
 
Work
 
Education
 
School
 
Economics
 
Welfare
 
Skill
 
Construction
 
Robotics
 
Learning
 
Concord High School
 





Trending Video














 











                
                Recommended for you
                
            





Featured Local Savings
























COUPON DEALS


NEWSPAPER ADS









Trending Recipes







                This Week's Circulars
            



























                
                Obituaries
                
                    


















        

        
            Miller, Norma


















        

        
            Garret, Kathy


















        

        
            Nettrouer, Sr., Robert


















        

        
            Taft, Howard









        

        
            SHIREY, Leslie Jan 2, 1923 - Dec 18, 2022





















        

        
            YODER, Gail Jan 26, 1949 - Dec 22, 2022


















        

        
            HOCHSTETLER, Olen Jan 15, 1939 - Dec 25, 2022






More Obituaries




                
                Online Poll
                
            






        

        
            How did inflationary prices impact the amount you spent this Christmas?










The National Retail Federation reports that American consumers spend an average of $997.73 on gifts and holiday items each Christmas. But with inflation, consumers are not getting as much for the dollars. How did inflationary prices impact the amount you spent this Christmas?

You voted: 






 I spent more this year
                                



 I spent less this year
                                



 I spent about the same
                                



 Bah, humbug! Who needs gifts?
                                

Vote
View Results




Back


















































 













        

        
            Miller, Norma



 













        

        
            Garret, Kathy



 













        

        
            Nettrouer, Sr., Robert



 













        

        
            Taft, Howard



 




        

        
            SHIREY, Leslie Jan 2, 1923 - Dec 18, 2022






 













        

        
            YODER, Gail Jan 26, 1949 - Dec 22, 2022



 













        

        
            HOCHSTETLER, Olen Jan 15, 1939 - Dec 25, 2022






