WeWork-Owned Common Desk to Launch in Irving, Texas - Allwork.Space
Common Desk, the flexible workspace company acquired by WeWork earlier this year, has leased a space in downtown Irving, Texas.  Common Desk will open the new 44,000-square-foot coworking space in mid-2023 through a lease agreement with Sunwest.  As part of the agreement, Sunwest will demolish the existing one-story retail building and build the new workspace for $4.7 million.   This is the latest of several planned coworking projects for WeWork and Common Desk in Texas. Common Desk is currently remodeling a location in San Antonio, and recently extended its lease with the Ion coworking space near Houston’s Rice University. 
Jo is Allwork.Space's Senior Editor for the UK and Europe. Jo has worked within business centre and coworking circles since 2009, researching and contributing written features for numerous industry publications. She reports on the latest market news and delves into local issues with one main objective: to champion the flexible workspace industry and its members.  News and Features Business Tech Marketing Design Work-life CRE Coworking Workforce Daily Digest Podcast Resources Marketplace Events Press Releases FlexSpace, Coworking
and Office Space Los Angeles New York Chicago Washington, D.C. Houston Dallas Miami San Francisco Atlanta Philadelphia Seattle Austin Company About Us Submit to Allwork.Space Contact Advertise FlexSpace Terms Of Use  FlexSpace FAQs Privacy Policy Connect with Allwork.Space Twitter Linkedin Facebook Instagram YouTube Apple Podcasts Spotify Google Podcasts ©2022 Allwork.Space  l  Exploring the FUTURE OF WORK® since 2003. Login to your account below 

 

 

Remember Me
 



 Please enter your username or email address to reset your password. 

 










India’s Coworking Market Well-Positioned For Growth In The New Year

 December 28, 2022

 





Malaysia Coworking Operator Launches Startup-Focused Office Brand

 December 28, 2022

 





WeWork India Receives $66.5 Million To Go Towards Expansion

 December 27, 2022

 





Columbus Coworking Operator Continues Ohio Expansion

 December 23, 2022




