HID Acquires Janam Technologies | citybiz
AUSTIN, Texas–(BUSINESS WIRE)–HID, a worldwide leader in trusted identity solutions, today announced it has acquired Janam Technologies, a leading provider of handheld mobile computers and readers. The acquisition increases HID’s presence and relevance as a provider of smart credential issuance and reader solutions.  “We welcome Janam to the HID family and look forward to leveraging their mobile reader technology to improve the event experience for millions of spectators around the world,” said Björn Lidefelt, EVP and Head of HID. “As digital tickets become more omnipresent, we will continue our commitment to offering best-in-class venue access products for event organizers and venues of all shapes and sizes.” Technology in the venue access space continues to rapidly evolve from physical tickets with manual inspection to digital tickets and RFID/NFC readers. This acquisition advances HID’s stature in the event access space, as Janam offers a suite of rugged mobile readers, including handheld devices and pedestal & kiosk products for venue access. Thanks to recent partnerships, Janam products also support the most advanced tap-and-go NFC features of Apple Wallet and Google Pay. Janam’s contactless access solutions support some of the largest and most important events in the biggest venues in the world, including the recent FIFA World Cup 2022 in Qatar, of which HID was the smart ticketing producer. “Joining forces with Janam is an important step in advancing HID’s Identification Technologies presence in the venue access vertical to be more comprehensive and convenient,” said Marc Bielmann, SVP and Head of Identification Technologies, HID. “This acquisition, along with our growing portfolio of RFID and NFC tickets, e-wallet capabilities, fixed & handheld readers, and related services, provides event organizers with a comprehensive venue access solution to make the fan experience more seamless and secure.” As part of the transaction, HID will also support Janam’s ongoing business in rugged mobile computing solutions that deliver increased productivity, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction to enterprise customers in retail, healthcare, warehousing, manufacturing, logistics, government and public safety markets. “Janam’s mobile solutions are a logical extension of HID’s broad footprint in the rapidly evolving world of identifying and certifying people and assets, and we are thrilled to build on our tradition of innovation, speed and customer advocacy as part of one of the most highly respected companies in our industry,” said Harry Lerner, CEO & Co-Founder of Janam Technologies. Founded in 2006 and headquartered in Woodbury, New York, Janam Technologies is now part of HID Identification Technologies Business Area led by Marc Bielmann. The Janam offering will merge into HID’s Events & Mobility Solutions Business Unit and benefit from HID’s sales and other global functions to support their offering. Stay Connected with HID Visit our Media Center, read our Industry Blog, and follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. About HID HID powers the trusted identities of the world’s people, places and things. We make it possible for people to transact safely, work productively and travel freely. Our trusted identity solutions give people convenient access to physical and digital places and connect things that can be identified, verified and tracked digitally. Millions of people around the world use HID products and services to navigate their everyday lives, and billions of things are connected through HID technology. We work with governments, educational institutions, hospitals, financial institutions, industrial businesses and some of the most innovative companies on the planet. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, HID has over 4,500 employees worldwide and operates international offices that support more than 100 countries. HID is an ASSA ABLOY Group brand. For more information, visit www.hidglobal.com. 
  © Copyright 2012 - 2022 | citybizlist | All Rights Reserved




 



Dallas, Houston, New York
Mergers & Acquisitions

HID Acquires Janam Technologies

January 2, 2023






AUSTIN, Texas–(BUSINESS WIRE)–HID, a worldwide leader in trusted identity solutions, today announced it has acquired Janam Technologies, a leading provider of handheld mobile computers and readers. The acquisition increases HID’s presence and relevance as a provider of smart credential issuance and reader solutions. 
“We welcome Janam to the HID family and look forward to leveraging their mobile reader technology to improve the event experience for millions of spectators around the world,” said Björn Lidefelt, EVP and Head of HID. “As digital tickets become more omnipresent, we will continue our commitment to offering best-in-class venue access products for event organizers and venues of all shapes and sizes.”




Technology in the venue access space continues to rapidly evolve from physical tickets with manual inspection to digital tickets and RFID/NFC readers. This acquisition advances HID’s stature in the event access space, as Janam offers a suite of rugged mobile readers, including handheld devices and pedestal & kiosk products for venue access. Thanks to recent partnerships, Janam products also support the most advanced tap-and-go NFC features of Apple Wallet and Google Pay.
Janam’s contactless access solutions support some of the largest and most important events in the biggest venues in the world, including the recent FIFA World Cup 2022 in Qatar, of which HID was the smart ticketing producer.
“Joining forces with Janam is an important step in advancing HID’s Identification Technologies presence in the venue access vertical to be more comprehensive and convenient,” said Marc Bielmann, SVP and Head of Identification Technologies, HID. “This acquisition, along with our growing portfolio of RFID and NFC tickets, e-wallet capabilities, fixed & handheld readers, and related services, provides event organizers with a comprehensive venue access solution to make the fan experience more seamless and secure.”




As part of the transaction, HID will also support Janam’s ongoing business in rugged mobile computing solutions that deliver increased productivity, operational efficiency and customer satisfaction to enterprise customers in retail, healthcare, warehousing, manufacturing, logistics, government and public safety markets.
“Janam’s mobile solutions are a logical extension of HID’s broad footprint in the rapidly evolving world of identifying and certifying people and assets, and we are thrilled to build on our tradition of innovation, speed and customer advocacy as part of one of the most highly respected companies in our industry,” said Harry Lerner, CEO & Co-Founder of Janam Technologies.
Founded in 2006 and headquartered in Woodbury, New York, Janam Technologies is now part of HID Identification Technologies Business Area led by Marc Bielmann. The Janam offering will merge into HID’s Events & Mobility Solutions Business Unit and benefit from HID’s sales and other global functions to support their offering.
Stay Connected with HID
Visit our Media Center, read our Industry Blog, and follow us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter.
About HID
HID powers the trusted identities of the world’s people, places and things. We make it possible for people to transact safely, work productively and travel freely. Our trusted identity solutions give people convenient access to physical and digital places and connect things that can be identified, verified and tracked digitally. Millions of people around the world use HID products and services to navigate their everyday lives, and billions of things are connected through HID technology. We work with governments, educational institutions, hospitals, financial institutions, industrial businesses and some of the most innovative companies on the planet. Headquartered in Austin, Texas, HID has over 4,500 employees worldwide and operates international offices that support more than 100 countries. HID is an ASSA ABLOY Group brand. For more information, visit www.hidglobal.com.





 



