The space sensors and actuators market is projected to grow from USD 2.7 Billion in 2022 to USD 4.9 Billion by 2027, at a CAGR of 12.7% from 2022 to 2027
Increasing development of radiation-hardened electro-optical space sensors, demand for electro hydrostatic actuators in space applications, use of CMOS image sensors for Earth observation, focus on reducing cost of space sensors, use of solar sensors for deep-space missions, demand for small & smart actuators for space robotic missions, are major drivers for the growth of this market. New York, Jan. 02, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Reportlinker.com announces the release of the report "Space Sensors and Actuators Market by Product Type, Platform, Application, End User, Region - Global Forecast to 2027" - https://www.reportlinker.com/p06106169/?utm_source=GNW The state of technology within the space industry is evolving rapidly.On the one hand, improvements in sensors and other technologies and innovations such as the small satellite architecture and manufacturing of sensors using 3D printers are driving down costs.On the other hand, more sensors and a greater diversity of sensor types mean greater spatial resolution, higher temporal cadence, and richer spectral coverage.This combination of decreased cost and increased capabilities opens new use cases, industries, and applications for businesses.There are significant ongoing investments in telecommunications, navigation, and Earth observation applications. It is not just the global superpowers and multinationals that have access to space and related services, but also emerging countries and startups.Based on End User, the commercial segment is expected to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.Space exploration is an ideal investment option for private players to increase their exploration activities in space.The commercial segment has been further classified into the NewSpace industry, satellite operators & owners, space robotic solution providers, space exploration companies, and satellite and launch vehicle manufacturers.For instance, in October 2022, SpaceX announced the successful launch of 53 Starlink satellites, boosting its internet-beaming space network to 3,558 satellites. Additionally, on December, 2022, OneWeb Satellites, a joint venture between OneWeb, British Government and Airbus Defense and Space to design and manufacture satellites, launched around 40 satellites for the OneWeb constellation from Kennedy Space Center, US.Based on platform, the satellite segment is estimated to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.Based on platform, satellite segment is estimated to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027 and is projected to grow further.Satellites carry a variety of sensors measuring bio-geophysical parameters such as sea surface temperature, nitrogen dioxide or other atmospheric pollutants, winds, aerosols, and biomass.These parameters can be evaluated through statistical and spectral analysis techniques.Satellites require swift movement for effective space operation.This swift movement is achieved by the actuators that provide a high torque control capacity. Venture Mfg. is one of the manufacturers of different types of linear actuators for satellite applicationsThe North America region is estimated to account for the largest share of Space sensors and actuators market in 2022.Based on region, North America is expected to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.There is strong political support in North America for adoption of advanced satellites.Another key factor fueling the growth of the space sensors and actuators market in the region is that a large number of leading developers of space sensors and actuators are concentrated in North America, with clear policies laid out for dealing with government agencies on defense matters. The satellite industry of North America is the largest in the world.The break-up of the profile of primary participants in the Space sensors and actuators market:• By Company Type: Tier 1 – 35%, Tier 2 – 45%, and Tier 3 – 20%• By Designation: C Level – 35%, Director Level – 25%, and Others – 40%• By Region: North America – 40%, Europe – 20%, Asia Pacific – 30%, Middle East & Africa – 5%, Latin America – 5%Major companies profiled in the report include Texas Instruments Incorporated (US), Honeywell International Inc. (US), Moog Inc. (US), Teledyne Technologies Limited (UK), Ametek, Inc. (US), TE Connectivity (Switzerland), RUAG Group (Switzerland), among others.Research Coverage:This market study covers the Space sensors and actuators market across various segments and subsegments.It aims at estimating the size and growth potential of this market across different segments based on product type, platform, end use and region.This study also includes an in-depth competitive analysis of the key players in the market, along with their company profiles, key observations related to their product and business offerings, recent developments undertaken by them, and key market strategies adopted by them.Reasons to buy this report:The report will help the market leaders/new entrants in this market with information on the closest approximations of the revenue numbers for the overall Space sensors and actuators market.This report will help stakeholders understand the competitive landscape and gain more insights to position their businesses better and to plan suitable go-to-market strategies.The report also helps stakeholders understand the pulse of the market and provides them with information on key market drivers, restraints, challenges, and opportunities.The report provides insights on the following pointers:• Market Penetration: Comprehensive information on Space sensors and actuators offered by the top players in the market• Product Development/Innovation: Detailed insights on upcoming technologies, research & development activities, and new product launches in the Space sensors and actuators market• Market Development: Comprehensive information about lucrative markets – the report analyses the Space sensors and actuators market across varied regions• Market Diversification: Exhaustive information about new products, untapped geographies, recent developments, and investments in the Space sensors and actuators market• Competitive Assessment: In-depth assessment of market shares, growth strategies, products, and manufacturing capabilities of leading players in the Space sensors and actuators marketRead the full report: https://www.reportlinker.com/p06106169/?utm_source=GNWAbout ReportlinkerReportLinker is an award-winning market research solution. Reportlinker finds and organizes the latest industry data so you get all the market research you need - instantly, in one place.__________________________  A 2020 fundraiser created by Damar Hamlin received hundreds of thousands of dollars in online donations Monday night. LSU 63, Purdue 7: Cheez-It Citrus Bowl what happened, player of the game, and what it all means High speed internet doesn't have to cost you a fortune. Find out if providers near you offer senior prices! The three-time World Cup winner died on December 29 aged 82. For the second straight season, Rutgers has knocked off No. 1 Purdue. Cloud Music Inc. (HKEX: 9899, "NetEase Cloud Music" or the "Company"), a leading interactive music streaming service provider in China, today announced that sales from top C-pop artist Chenyu Hua's new album have exceeded RMB20 million (over 760,000 copies sold) on NetEase Cloud Music as of December 31, 2022, topped the 2022 annual album sales chart on the platform, less than two weeks after its official debut. Think you're getting the best deal when you shop online? Don't buy a single thing until you try this — you won't regret it. Authorities say Trevor Bickford whipped out a machete and attacked the three officers, striking two of them in the head. Mikko Rantanen (Colorado Avalanche) with a Goal vs. Vegas Golden Knights, 01/02/2023 Damar Hamlin, also known as D Ham, joined the Buffalo Bills in 2021 as a 6th-round draft pick. The 24-year-old made his NFL debut on September 12, 2021 against the Pittsburgh Steelers. He appeared in 14 games during the 2021 season. Most Chrome users don't know this one security tip. Run a Free Scan (Do it Now) Fred White, one of the two drummers for soul group Earth Wind & Fire during the most successful decade in its history, 1974-84, died Monday at age 67. No cause of death was given. White was part of a family legacy at the ensemble’s core, as the brother of Verdine White and half-brother of Maurice […] CBS4 News chief meteorologist Ivan Cabrera's weather outlook for South Florida. An ambulance carrying Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin arrives at a Cincinnati-area hospital after he collapsed on field following a first-quarter tackle. Millions of Americans are using this to save on their rising energy bills! He was 55. A 4-year-old girl, a 9-year-old boy and two adults survived Monday after their car plunged off a Northern California cliff along the Pacific Coast Highway near an area known as Devil's Slide that's known for fatal wrecks, officials said. (Jan 2) His snowmobile ‘upended, landing on top of him’ on a steep slope From Firm To Soft In All Sizes - See What Mattress Is The Perfect Fit For You. Shop From A Wide Selection, All For a Great Price! Japan's "anti-Russian course" makes peace treaty talks impossible, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Rudenko said in comments published by the state TASS news agency on Tuesday.  Russia and Japan have not formally ended World War Two hostilities because of their standoff over islands, seized by the Soviet Union at the end of the war, just off Japan's northernmost island of Hokkaido. A teenager was taken to the hospital after being shot at Curtis Hixon Park on Sunday. Tampa Police said they were dispatched around 9 p.m. after getting reports of a person being shot. When they arrived, they found a 16-year-old boy had been shot in the park. Good Samaritans provided first aid to the teenager until he was transported to the hospital. He is still in critical condition. Ravens players offered prayers for Buffalo Bills safety Damar Hamlin after he collapsed on the football field in the middle of Monday's game against the Cincinnati Bengals. Learn How to Find Out if You or a Loved One Qualify for Mesothelioma Trust Funds. Players, Fans send prayers and support to Bills' Hamlin after he collapses during game Eric Fisher has an updated weather forecast. The Chicago Bulls fell apart under the fury of Donovan Mitchell in Monday’s 145-134 overtime loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers. Mitchell scored 71 points, eclipsing a Cavs scoring record held by LeBron James. With an 18-point halftime lead, the Bulls seemed set to cement a crucial win in Cleveland after dropping a home game to the Cavaliers two days earlier. But Mitchell ignited in the second ...
GlobeNewswireThe space sensors and actuators market is projected to grow from USD 2.7 Billion in 2022 to USD 4.9 Billion by 2027, at a CAGR of 12.7% from 2022 to 2027Read full articleReportLinkerJanuary 2, 2023, 6:39 AM·5 min readReportLinkerIncreasing development of radiation-hardened electro-optical space sensors, demand for electro hydrostatic actuators in space applications, use of CMOS image sensors for Earth observation, focus on reducing cost of space sensors, use of solar sensors for deep-space missions, demand for small & smart actuators for space robotic missions, are major drivers for the growth of this market.New York, Jan. 02, 2023 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Reportlinker.com announces the release of the report "Space Sensors and Actuators Market by Product Type, Platform, Application, End User, Region - Global Forecast to 2027" - https://www.reportlinker.com/p06106169/?utm_source=GNW The state of technology within the space industry is evolving rapidly.On the one hand, improvements in sensors and other technologies and innovations such as the small satellite architecture and manufacturing of sensors using 3D printers are driving down costs.On the other hand, more sensors and a greater diversity of sensor types mean greater spatial resolution, higher temporal cadence, and richer spectral coverage.This combination of decreased cost and increased capabilities opens new use cases, industries, and applications for businesses.There are significant ongoing investments in telecommunications, navigation, and Earth observation applications. It is not just the global superpowers and multinationals that have access to space and related services, but also emerging countries and startups.Based on End User, the commercial segment is expected to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.Space exploration is an ideal investment option for private players to increase their exploration activities in space.The commercial segment has been further classified into the NewSpace industry, satellite operators & owners, space robotic solution providers, space exploration companies, and satellite and launch vehicle manufacturers.For instance, in October 2022, SpaceX announced the successful launch of 53 Starlink satellites, boosting its internet-beaming space network to 3,558 satellites. Additionally, on December, 2022, OneWeb Satellites, a joint venture between OneWeb, British Government and Airbus Defense and Space to design and manufacture satellites, launched around 40 satellites for the OneWeb constellation from Kennedy Space Center, US.Based on platform, the satellite segment is estimated to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.Based on platform, satellite segment is estimated to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027 and is projected to grow further.Satellites carry a variety of sensors measuring bio-geophysical parameters such as sea surface temperature, nitrogen dioxide or other atmospheric pollutants, winds, aerosols, and biomass.These parameters can be evaluated through statistical and spectral analysis techniques.Satellites require swift movement for effective space operation.This swift movement is achieved by the actuators that provide a high torque control capacity. Venture Mfg. is one of the manufacturers of different types of linear actuators for satellite applicationsThe North America region is estimated to account for the largest share of Space sensors and actuators market in 2022.Based on region, North America is expected to lead the space sensors and actuators market from 2022 to 2027.There is strong political support in North America for adoption of advanced satellites.Another key factor fueling the growth of the space sensors and actuators market in the region is that a large number of leading developers of space sensors and actuators are concentrated in North America, with clear policies laid out for dealing with government agencies on defense matters. The satellite industry of North America is the largest in the world.The break-up of the profile of primary participants in the Space sensors and actuators market:• By Company Type: Tier 1 – 35%, Tier 2 – 45%, and Tier 3 – 20%• By Designation: C Level – 35%, Director Level – 25%, and Others – 40%• By Region: North America – 40%, Europe – 20%, Asia Pacific – 30%, Middle East & Africa – 5%, Latin America – 5%Major companies profiled in the report include Texas Instruments Incorporated (US), Honeywell International Inc. (US), Moog Inc. (US), Teledyne Technologies Limited (UK), Ametek, Inc. (US), TE Connectivity (Switzerland), RUAG Group (Switzerland), among others.Research Coverage:This market study covers the Space sensors and actuators market across various segments and subsegments.It aims at estimating the size and growth potential of this market across different segments based on product type, platform, end use and region.This study also includes an in-depth competitive analysis of the key players in the market, along with their company profiles, key observations related to their product and business offerings, recent developments undertaken by them, and key market strategies adopted by them.Reasons to buy this report:The report will help the market leaders/new entrants in this market with information on the closest approximations of the revenue numbers for the overall Space sensors and actuators market.This report will help stakeholders understand the competitive landscape and gain more insights to position their businesses better and to plan suitable go-to-market strategies.The report also helps stakeholders understand the pulse of the market and provides them with information on key market drivers, restraints, challenges, and opportunities.The report provides insights on the following pointers:• Market Penetration: Comprehensive information on Space sensors and actuators offered by the top players in the market• Product Development/Innovation: Detailed insights on upcoming technologies, research & development activities, and new product launches in the Space sensors and actuators market• Market Development: Comprehensive information about lucrative markets – the report analyses the Space sensors and actuators market across varied regions• Market Diversification: Exhaustive information about new products, untapped geographies, recent developments, and investments in the Space sensors and actuators market• Competitive Assessment: In-depth assessment of market shares, growth strategies, products, and manufacturing capabilities of leading players in the Space sensors and actuators marketRead the full report: https://www.reportlinker.com/p06106169/?utm_source=GNWAbout ReportlinkerReportLinker is an award-winning market research solution. Reportlinker finds and organizes the latest industry data so you get all the market research you need - instantly, in one place.__________________________Story continuesCONTACT: Clare: clare@reportlinker.com US: (339)-368-6001 Intl: +1 339-368-6001AdvertisementTRENDING 1. Zelensky signs controversial law expanding government power to regulate media 2. EXPLAINER: How the House of Representatives elects a speaker 3. Dry Tortugas National Park in Florida Keys closes after hundreds of migrants arrive 4. Idaho murders suspect pulled over twice on cross-country race home with dad, lawyer claims 5. Idaho murders: Suspect was identified through DNA using genealogy databases, police say


Advertisement


