ArianeGroup extends partnership with GKN Aerospace
GKN Aerospace has signed a contract with ArianeGroup to supply the next phase of Ariane 6 turbines and Vulcain nozzles. The contract includes the manufacturing and supply of units for the next 14 Ariane 6 launchers – to be produced from now until 2025, and covers the industrialization period of breakthrough laser-welded technology and additively manufactured structures. GKN Aerospace, at its Trollhättan site in Sweden, is currently focused on industrializing and integrating novel, innovative technology into its Ariane 6 products. This includes the nozzle channel wall, which will include all-new technologies in a flight application. The design has been continuously improved over time, and during the transition batch process, it will be further matured in GKN Aerospace’s state-of-the-art center of excellence. This is essential to prepare for increased production in the next phase of launcher exploitation. 



GKN Aerospace’s space business unit, in Trollhättan, has been active in the Ariane program from its inception in 1974 – having contributed to the program at every stage from initial research and development through to serial production. To date, GKN Aerospace has made over 1,000 combustion chambers and nozzles, as well as over 250 turbines, for the Ariane rocket. “Signing this contract is an important step ahead, not only for GKN Aerospace and the launcher activities in Sweden, but for the entire Ariane 6 program,” said Martin Velander, Launcher Engines Program Director at GKN Aerospace. “It reinforces that Swedish participation is key to the future of the launcher and for the future of European space exploration.” “Following the signature of the exploitation contracts with Sabca, Airbus Spain, Europropulsion, Avio, and MTAerospace, this contract with GKN Aerospace is a new and key step towards a strong Ariane 6 European team,” said Stephane Nogatchewsky, Head of Procurement of ArianeGroup. “While the inaugural flight of Ariane 6 is getting closer and the industrial ramp-up is intensifying, this collaboration is a positive and critical milestone for the future of Ariane 6 operations. Also, unifying European actors is paramount to ensure further A6 industrial robustness, competitiveness, and preserve European autonomous access to space.” The Ariane 6 program is the only European asset that allows independent access to space for strategic missions. It also provides the flexibility to launch both heavy and light payloads to a wide range of orbits for applications such as Earth observation, telecommunication, meteorology, science, and navigation. 741 unique polymer AM companies individually surveyed and studied. Core polymer AM market generated $4.6 billion... Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name  Email  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment. 

 I’ve read and accept the privacy policy.  *

  

 


 

I’ve read and accept the  privacy policy.*
 


 

I’ve read and accept the  privacy policy.*
 We use cookies to give you the best online experience and for ads personalisation. By agreeing you accept the use of cookies in accordance with our cookie policy. When you visit any web site, it may store or retrieve information on your browser, mostly in the form of cookies. Control your personal Cookie Services here. STAY AHEAD OF THE CURVE Join industry leaders and receive the latest insights on what really matters in AM! This information will never be shared with 3rd parties I’ve read and accept the privacy policy.* WELCOME ON BOARD!


 Home/Aerospace/ArianeGroup extends partnership with GKN Aerospace

Acquisitions, Mergers & PartnershipsAerospace
ArianeGroup extends partnership with GKN Aerospace
The agreement covers the industrialization period of laser-welded technology and additively manufactured structures for the next phase of Ariane 6 turbines and Vulcain nozzles




Edward WakefieldJanuary 2, 2023 2 minutes read  




Stay up to date with everything that is happening in the wonderful world of AM via our  LinkedIn community.

ShareTweetSharePinWhatsAppBuffer
GKN Aerospace has signed a contract with ArianeGroup to supply the next phase of Ariane 6 turbines and Vulcain nozzles. The contract includes the manufacturing and supply of units for the next 14 Ariane 6 launchers – to be produced from now until 2025, and covers the industrialization period of breakthrough laser-welded technology and additively manufactured structures.
GKN Aerospace, at its Trollhättan site in Sweden, is currently focused on industrializing and integrating novel, innovative technology into its Ariane 6 products. This includes the nozzle channel wall, which will include all-new technologies in a flight application. The design has been continuously improved over time, and during the transition batch process, it will be further matured in GKN Aerospace’s state-of-the-art center of excellence. This is essential to prepare for increased production in the next phase of launcher exploitation.




GKN Aerospace’s space business unit, in Trollhättan, has been active in the Ariane program from its inception in 1974 – having contributed to the program at every stage from initial research and development through to serial production. To date, GKN Aerospace has made over 1,000 combustion chambers and nozzles, as well as over 250 turbines, for the Ariane rocket.
“Signing this contract is an important step ahead, not only for GKN Aerospace and the launcher activities in Sweden, but for the entire Ariane 6 program,” said Martin Velander, Launcher Engines Program Director at GKN Aerospace. “It reinforces that Swedish participation is key to the future of the launcher and for the future of European space exploration.”
“Following the signature of the exploitation contracts with Sabca, Airbus Spain, Europropulsion, Avio, and MTAerospace, this contract with GKN Aerospace is a new and key step towards a strong Ariane 6 European team,” said Stephane Nogatchewsky, Head of Procurement of ArianeGroup. “While the inaugural flight of Ariane 6 is getting closer and the industrial ramp-up is intensifying, this collaboration is a positive and critical milestone for the future of Ariane 6 operations. Also, unifying European actors is paramount to ensure further A6 industrial robustness, competitiveness, and preserve European autonomous access to space.”
The Ariane 6 program is the only European asset that allows independent access to space for strategic missions. It also provides the flexibility to launch both heavy and light payloads to a wide range of orbits for applications such as Earth observation, telecommunication, meteorology, science, and navigation.


ShareTweetSharePinWhatsAppBuffer
 Tagsfuture







Edward WakefieldJanuary 2, 2023 2 minutes read  



 




January 5 - January 8 



		CES 2023	



 




January 20 - January 24 



		Vicenza Oro – T.Gold	



 




February 4 - February 6 



		MIDO Milano	



 




February 7 @ 08:00 - February 9 @ 17:00 



		Additive Manufacturing Strategies 2023 – AMS 2023	



 




February 12 - February 15 



		3DEXPERIENCE World 2023	






