BJP govt at Centre should apologise for 'misleading' people on Ram Setu: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel – ThePrint – PTIFeed
Article:  Raipur, Dec 25 (PTI) The Union government should apologise for “misleading” the country on the Ram Setu issue, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has said, adding that when the Congress-led UPA government stated the same thing in the past, it was dubbed as “anti-Ram”.  Baghel was speaking to reporters at a helipad here on Saturday.  Responding to a question about Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh’s statement in Parliament on Ram Setu, Baghel said, “When the Congress government (at the Centre) said the same thing, we were branded as anti-Ram.” “The government of these so-called devotees of Lord Ram stated in Parliament that there is no solid evidence of it (Ram Setu), so now in which category they should be put? They should apologise for misleading people,” the CM said The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) also did not comment on the government’s stand, and had they been real devotees of Ram, they would have criticised the government, the Congress leader added.  Replying to a question whether the existence of Ram Setu or submerged city of Dwarka can be proven through satellite images, Union minister Singh said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that Indian satellites have acquired high resolution images over Ram Setu region connecting India and Sri Lanka.  However, satellite images cannot provide direct information about the origin and age of this structure, he had said.  “Through space technology we have been able to discover pieces and islands, some kind of limestone shoals, which of course, can’t be accurately said to be remnants or parts of a bridge. But they do have a certain amount of continuity in location through which some surmises can be drawn.  “So, what I am trying to say in short is that it is difficult to actually pinpoint the exact structure that existed there, but there is some kind of an indication, direct or indirect, that those structures have existed,” the Union minister had stated.  Earlier on Saturday, CM Baghel unveiled the trophy of the FIH Men’s Hockey World Cup during a welcome ceremony held at his residence in Raipur. The world cup will start in Odisha from January 13. PTI COR KRK GK GK GK This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content. Subscribe to our channels on YouTube & Telegram Support Our Journalism India needs fair, non-hyphenated and questioning journalism, packed with on-ground reporting. ThePrint – with exceptional reporters, columnists and editors – is doing just that. Sustaining this needs support from wonderful readers like you. Whether you live in India or overseas, you can take a paid subscription by clicking here. Support Our Journalism  Copyright © 2022 Printline Media Pvt. Ltd. All rights reserved.
Article: 





Sign in
Welcome! Log into your account


your username
your password


Forgot your password? Get help
Privacy Policy


Password recovery
Recover your password


your email


A password will be e-mailed to you.








HomeIndiaBJP govt at Centre should apologise for 'misleading' people on Ram Setu:...
India

BJP govt at Centre should apologise for ‘misleading’ people on Ram Setu: Chhattisgarh CM Baghel

 PTI

25 December, 2022 09:00 am IST 




FacebookTwitterPinterestWhatsApp



	Text Size:
A-
A+


 Raipur, Dec 25 (PTI) The Union government should apologise for “misleading” the country on the Ram Setu issue, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel has said, adding that when the Congress-led UPA government stated the same thing in the past, it was dubbed as “anti-Ram”.
 Baghel was speaking to reporters at a helipad here on Saturday.
 Responding to a question about Union Science and Technology Minister Jitendra Singh’s statement in Parliament on Ram Setu, Baghel said, “When the Congress government (at the Centre) said the same thing, we were branded as anti-Ram.” “The government of these so-called devotees of Lord Ram stated in Parliament that there is no solid evidence of it (Ram Setu), so now in which category they should be put? They should apologise for misleading people,” the CM said The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) also did not comment on the government’s stand, and had they been real devotees of Ram, they would have criticised the government, the Congress leader added.








 Replying to a question whether the existence of Ram Setu or submerged city of Dwarka can be proven through satellite images, Union minister Singh said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday that Indian satellites have acquired high resolution images over Ram Setu region connecting India and Sri Lanka.
 However, satellite images cannot provide direct information about the origin and age of this structure, he had said.
 “Through space technology we have been able to discover pieces and islands, some kind of limestone shoals, which of course, can’t be accurately said to be remnants or parts of a bridge. But they do have a certain amount of continuity in location through which some surmises can be drawn.
 “So, what I am trying to say in short is that it is difficult to actually pinpoint the exact structure that existed there, but there is some kind of an indication, direct or indirect, that those structures have existed,” the Union minister had stated.
 Earlier on Saturday, CM Baghel unveiled the trophy of the FIH Men’s Hockey World Cup during a welcome ceremony held at his residence in Raipur. The world cup will start in Odisha from January 13. PTI COR KRK GK GK GK
This report is auto-generated from PTI news service. ThePrint holds no responsibility for its content.


Subscribe to our channels on YouTube & Telegram
Support Our Journalism
India needs fair, non-hyphenated and questioning journalism, packed with on-ground reporting. ThePrint – with exceptional reporters, columnists and editors – is doing just that.
Sustaining this needs support from wonderful readers like you.
Whether you live in India or overseas, you can take a paid subscription by clicking here.
Support Our Journalism 

TagsPTI wireFacebookTwitterPinterestWhatsApp






Most Popular



‘I wanted to go to Oxford’. Afghan women’s dreams dashed after Taliban’s university ban

Kritika Sharma -  23 December, 2022 


 



Powered by farmer unions, stir against liquor factory in Zira ‘isn’t about just 1...

Suchet Vir Singh -  23 December, 2022 


 



‘Big Tech like Google, Meta dominate market’ — Parliament panel bats for ‘Digital Competition...

Anupriya Chatterjee -  23 December, 2022 


    
Article: 
Article: 
Article: 