Top Space Industry-Changing Events 2022: DART Mission and Other Spaceflights! | Tech Times
Article: 
 The space industry has drastically improved this 2022.  Thanks to the efforts made by NASA, ESA, and other space organizations, various out-of-this-world places were explored.  Now, here are some of the most revolutionary space missions that enhanced the world's space industry.  Space.Com's latest report provided the top revolutionary space events that took place this 2022. Here are some of them:  Also Read: SpaceX Partners With Level Ex Video Games To Train Crew for Polaris Dawn Mission Ingenuity Helicopter's Records The Martian helicopter of NASA, Ingenuity, unexpectedly set both altitude and distance records; a distance of 2,310 feet at around 12 mph on Apr. 8.  SpaceX and China Record Launches  SpaceX completed 56 rocket launches, while China was able to conduct 60 spaceflights; 58 of these were successful.  NASA DART Mission NASA DART (Double Asteroid Redirection Test) was able to change the trajectory of the Dimorphos asteroid.  First Astronaut TikToker Although it may not seem a big deal, astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti decided to become the first TikToker from space. Her content is mostly educational videos about her daily life at the ISS.  These are just some of the most important space activities this 2022. You can visit this link to see more revolutionary spaceflights.  MIT Technology Review reported that there would be more ground-breaking spaceflights.  One of these is the lunar lander that SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launched this December. The Hakuto-R, developed by the Japanese firm ispace, is expected to reach the moon by 2023.  Of course, private/commercial spaceflights are also expected to boom once the year 2023 enters.  Aside from these, space experts also said that Jupiter's moons are among the agenda of ESA.  The European Space Agency's JUICE (Jupiter Icy Moons Explorer) is expected to launch soon and reach the Gas Giant as early as 2031.  Other space stories we recently wrote:  Previously, the NASA James Webb Space Telescope captured a photo of a spiky spiral galaxy.  Astronomers also mapped the "Poor Old Heart" of the Milky Way Galaxy.  For more news updates about space and other science topics, keep your tabs open here at TechTimes.   Related Article: Space Bang: Top 5 Biggest Space Explosions, Crashes of 2022 Sign up for our free newsletter for the Latest coverage!  
Article: 




Amazon Tech Deals: Check Out These Fitbit Trackers on Sale for Last-minute Gifts

 




Glioblastoma Cure: Researchers Found Potential Weakness of this Deadly Brain Cancer

 




XRAI Glass Partnership With Nreal Air Makes Real-life Subtitles for Hearing-impaired Users

 




Exhausted Cancer-Fighting T Cells Can be Reinvigorated to Protect the Immune System, New Study Finds

 




Scientists Discover a New Metabolite That Could Make Urine Test Viable for Detecting Liver Cancer

 







                Intel                


                Intel's mission is to shape the future                
 







                Meta                


                Meta Platforms, Inc., doing business as                
 







                Mediacoin                


                Mediacoin is a huge multi-platform                
 







                Sony                


                Japanese multinational conglomerate                
 



Tech Space Bang: Top 5 Biggest Space Explosions, Crashes of 2022
 



Tech Santa Claus is Coming to Town and You Can Monitor Him Through NORAD'S Tracker
 



Tech Having Last-Minute Shopping Anxiety? Here are Some Next-Day Delivery Offers
 



Tech Choosing Practical Gifts for Internet Content Creation? Take a Look at the Maono Podcast Equipment Bundles

Article: 
Article: 
Article: 