Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs  - Robotics India Live

								Robotics India Live							  Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs  Use of 3D technology in constructing buildings and repairs of mechanical equipment Comm/Secy, A.K.Sahu, holds an interactive session with IIT, Guwahati Leh,( Ladakh), Taking a step towards enhancing the capacity of its executing agencies by using the latest technology, the Ladakh administration is exploring the use of 3D printing technology in the construction of civil structures and repair/maintenance of machines in Ladakh. The Commissioner/Secretary, Public Works Department, Ajeet Kumar Sahu, along with the officials of PWD, Ladakh held an interactive session with the Director and professors from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati. The team from IIT headed by Prof. Parmeshwar Iyer; the Director, IIT Guwahati, gave a comprehensive presentation on the achievement made by the institute in the area of newly emerging 3D technology, viz 3D metal machine parts printing and constructing civil structures They demonstrated various kinds of machine parts and special requirements of machine parts, manufactured at their workshop using a robotic arm. The team also demonstrated work on buildings such as toilets and guard rooms constructed with 3D printing technology using a robotic arm. The Commissioner/Secretary said that the UT administration is considering the idea of using robotic arm in the construction of infrastructure, especially in remote areas as the incorporation of robotic technology yields highly accurate results; increases efficiency; enhances safety measures for the workforce; saves time and cuts costs, besides the robotics can be controlled from a safer area thus, eliminating the need to physically access unsafe locations. The use of 3D technology in construction will be sustainable and help achieve the objective of a carbon-neutral Ladakh. It will also quicken the design process. The interactive session with IIT Guwahati and PWD was a fruitful interchange of ideas on the newly emerging 3D technology and also familiarised the engineers of Ladakh with this emerging technology. The interactive session was attended by Prof. Parmeshwar Iyer; the Director, IIT Guwahati, Prof Sajan Kapil and Prof Biranchi Panda of IIT Guwahati; SE, PWD Leh and Kargil among others. We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons. Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter.  You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and 3D Technology related news. Ladakh admin explores use of #3D technology in constructing buildings & repair of mechanical equipments. Comm/Secy @sahuajeet along with officials of #PWDLadakh held an interactive session with the Director & Professors of @IITGuwahati.#robotics #roboticsindia #technews #3d pic.twitter.com/299cVn0uYv Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment *  Name *  Email *  Website   Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Sign up for The Robotics India Our Newsletters
NameNameEmailEnter your email addressPhone NumberPhone NumberSign Up Events Publish Home Newsletter About You can subscribe to our newsletter below to get regular updates on our availability. We share a curated list of best stories on AI & machine learning No thanks, I’m not interested!





3D Technology Innovation Science and Technology Technology 


				Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs 			


 January 1, 2023January 1, 2023




						Roboticsindia					



 0 Comments 


Share it now!Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs 
Use of 3D technology in constructing buildings and repairs of mechanical equipment Comm/Secy, A.K.Sahu, holds an interactive session with IIT, Guwahati
Leh,( Ladakh), Taking a step towards enhancing the capacity of its executing agencies by using the latest technology, the Ladakh administration is exploring the use of 3D printing technology in the construction of civil structures and repair/maintenance of machines in Ladakh. The Commissioner/Secretary, Public Works Department, Ajeet Kumar Sahu, along with the officials of PWD, Ladakh held an interactive session with the Director and professors from the prestigious Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati.
The team from IIT headed by Prof. Parmeshwar Iyer; the Director, IIT Guwahati, gave a comprehensive presentation on the achievement made by the institute in the area of newly emerging 3D technology, viz 3D metal machine parts printing and constructing civil structures They demonstrated various kinds of machine parts and special requirements of machine parts, manufactured at their workshop using a robotic arm. The team also demonstrated work on buildings such as toilets and guard rooms constructed with 3D printing technology using a robotic arm.
Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs
The Commissioner/Secretary said that the UT administration is considering the idea of using robotic arm in the construction of infrastructure, especially in remote areas as the incorporation of robotic technology yields highly accurate results; increases efficiency; enhances safety measures for the workforce; saves time and cuts costs, besides the robotics can be controlled from a safer area thus, eliminating the need to physically access unsafe locations.
The use of 3D technology in construction will be sustainable and help achieve the objective of a carbon-neutral Ladakh. It will also quicken the design process.
The interactive session with IIT Guwahati and PWD was a fruitful interchange of ideas on the newly emerging 3D technology and also familiarised the engineers of Ladakh with this emerging technology.
The interactive session was attended by Prof. Parmeshwar Iyer; the Director, IIT Guwahati, Prof Sajan Kapil and Prof Biranchi Panda of IIT Guwahati; SE, PWD Leh and Kargil among others.
Help us grow our Positive Movement
We at The Robotics India want to create a Robotics ecosystem in India. By using the power of an effective Platform for enthusiasts, we want to change India. If you read us, like us, and want this positive movement to grow, then do consider supporting us via the following buttons.
Ladakh explores use of 3D construction technology in buildings and repairs for similar Robotics-related news and updates follow The Robotics India. Also don’t forget to follow us on Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter. 
You can also subscribe to our Newsletter for Indian robotics and 3D Technology related news.

Ladakh admin explores use of #3D technology in constructing buildings & repair of mechanical equipments. Comm/Secy @sahuajeet along with officials of #PWDLadakh held an interactive session with the Director & Professors of @IITGuwahati.#robotics #roboticsindia #technews #3d pic.twitter.com/299cVn0uYv— The Robotics India 🇮🇳 (@robotics4india) January 1, 2023

  

Related
Share it now! 




