Japan’s mission Dearmoon is special, 8 Japanese will land on the moon, know everything – PressWire18
Hit enter to search or ESC to close  
 Golden Period For Space Technology: Many good things are about to start in the new year.  This year is considered important in many ways.  This year is also considered very important for space technology.  This year, 5 space missions of the world on which everyone’s eyes will be fixed.  In these 4 missions, India’s private space company Sky Route is going to be launched with the first 3D printed rocket.  Important space missions to be launched this year also include Japan’s mission Dearmoon and NASA’s asteroid mission.  Let us tell you which missions will be launched this year. 1. SpaceX’s Super Heavy Starship In this year, the weight of the cargo of SpaceX’s super heavy starship is about 1 lakh kg.  This cargo will be included in the lower orbit of the earth.  It will have two components.  The first component will be the spacecraft and the second component will be the super heavy rocket.  This cargo is made of 39 powerful engines, which will lift it to a height of 65 kilometers.2. Japan’s ‘Dearmoon’ mission In this mission of Japan, a team of 8 people will go round the moon and land on its surface.  The success of this mission will also reveal the future of deep space tourism.  3. Jupiter Icy Moons ExplorerScientists believe that many types of precious metals including gold and platinum are present in Utah.  Scientists also believe that water is also present at this place.  This mission will come to America on 24 September.  In this mission, NASA’s Osiris also has to return from near the Earth with a sample of Bennu Asteroid.  4. Sky Route’s 3D Printed Rocket​​​​​​​​​​  India’s first private space company Sky Route will launch another satellite this year.  Its goal is to speed up the production of 3D-printed rockets.  This will reduce the cost of private launch.  Two private companies will also launch rockets this year. Russia-Ukraine War: Ukrainian fighter pilot fired missiles as Santa Claus, watching VIDEO people said – Santa also wants to defeat Russia Disclosure — In order to grow our small business, Presswire18 earns revenue in a few different ways. We publish several sponsored posts each month, which are always labeled at the top. We also sometimes earn an affiliate commission on the sales of products we link to. We feature only items we genuinely love and want to share, and this is an arrangement between the retailer and Presswire18 (readers never pay more for products). These are the ways we support Presswire18 , and allow us to run the site and engage with this community we truly love. Thank you for reading! 
© 2022 All Rights Reserved. | Presswire18 | BlogByRonit 



