OODA Loop - OODA Network Members invited to Quantum Security Bash 26 Jan 2023 in Reston VA
As mentioned in our weekly OODA Member Network Dispatch, OODA and Katzcy are planning an invite-only quantum networking event for the evening of 26 January in Reston VA (Thanks to both Quintessence Labs and the Fairfax County Economic Development Authority for sponsoring this event). OODA network members are invited to this event and should be receiving an invite shortly. If you are not an OODA network member but would like to attend, please considering joining the network and also let us know a bit about your background in or interests in quantum computing and quantum security. We are not planning speeches or presentations at this session, but are inviting leaders who have been studying issues around quantum computing and quantum security and the room will be primed for networking on these topics. Why the need for more peer-to-peer networking on this topic? Many in our community have been watching developments in quantum computing and quantum security. Quantum related topics are a frequent subject of our OODA research and reporting and a common topic in our monthly member video sessions. It was a topic hit upon at OODAcon as well. We believe the peer-to-peer networking will help us bring together many of these threads and help us all continue to sort out what to focus on in this exciting area. Our goal is to listen to your inputs during and after this networking event to see how we can better meet your research and analysis needs. We hope to see you there. Use OODA Loop to improve your decision making in any competitive endeavor. Explore OODA Loop The greatest determinant of your success will be the quality of your decisions. We examine frameworks for understanding and reducing risk while enabling opportunities. Topics include Black Swans, Gray Rhinos, Foresight, Strategy, Stratigames, Business Intelligence and Intelligent Enterprises. Leadership in the modern age is also a key topic in this domain. Explore Decision Intelligence We track the rapidly changing world of technology with a focus on what leaders need to know to improve decision-making. The future of tech is being created now and we provide insights that enable optimized action based on the future of tech. We provide deep insights into Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Quantum Computing, Security Technology, Space Technology. Explore Disruptive/Exponential Tech Security and resiliency topics include geopolitical and cyber risk, cyber conflict, cyber diplomacy, cybersecurity, nation state conflict, non-nation state conflict, global health, international crime, supply chain and terrorism. Explore Security and Resiliency The OODA community includes a broad group of decision-makers, analysts, entrepreneurs, government leaders and tech creators. Interact with and learn from your peers via online monthly meetings, OODA Salons, the OODAcast, in-person conferences and an online forum. For the most sensitive discussions interact with executive leaders via a closed Wickr channel. The community also has access to a member only video library. Explore The OODA Community Bob Gourley is the co-founder and Chief Technology Officer (CTO) of OODA LLC, the technology research and advisory firm with a focus on artificial intelligence and cybersecurity which publishes OODALoop.com. Bob is the co-host of the popular podcast The OODAcast. Bob has been an advisor to dozens of successful high tech startups and has conducted enterprise cybersecurity assessments for businesses in multiple sectors of the economy. He was a career Naval Intelligence Officer and is the former CTO of the Defense Intelligence Agency. Find Bob on Defcon.Social
ArchiveDisruptive TechnologyOODA OriginalOODA Network Members invited to Quantum Security Bash 26 Jan 2023 in Reston VA Bob Gourley 2023-01-02  02  Jan 2023    Bob Gourley   ShareTweetPostRedditAs mentioned in our weekly OODA Member Network Dispatch, OODA and Katzcy are planning an invite-only quantum networking event for the evening of 26 January in Reston VA (Thanks to both Quintessence Labs and the Fairfax County Economic Development Authority for sponsoring this event).OODA network members are invited to this event and should be receiving an invite shortly. If you are not an OODA network member but would like to attend, please considering joining the network and also let us know a bit about your background in or interests in quantum computing and quantum security.We are not planning speeches or presentations at this session, but are inviting leaders who have been studying issues around quantum computing and quantum security and the room will be primed for networking on these topics.Why the need for more peer-to-peer networking on this topic?There so much news on quantum related topics, but not enough insight. So there is clearly a need for more understanding on what is relevant in this domain.There is also a need for prudent risk reduction in this space.Unfortunately, there is also a need for better ways to spot and mitigate hype.Many in our community have been watching developments in quantum computing and quantum security. Quantum related topics are a frequent subject of our OODA research and reporting and a common topic in our monthly member video sessions. It was a topic hit upon at OODAcon as well. We believe the peer-to-peer networking will help us bring together many of these threads and help us all continue to sort out what to focus on in this exciting area.Our goal is to listen to your inputs during and after this networking event to see how we can better meet your research and analysis needs. We hope to see you there.Related Reading:Explore OODA Research and AnalysisUse OODA Loop to improve your decision making in any competitive endeavor. Explore OODA LoopDecision IntelligenceThe greatest determinant of your success will be the quality of your decisions. We examine frameworks for understanding and reducing risk while enabling opportunities. Topics include Black Swans, Gray Rhinos, Foresight, Strategy, Stratigames, Business Intelligence and Intelligent Enterprises. Leadership in the modern age is also a key topic in this domain. Explore Decision IntelligenceDisruptive/Exponential TechnologyWe track the rapidly changing world of technology with a focus on what leaders need to know to improve decision-making. The future of tech is being created now and we provide insights that enable optimized action based on the future of tech. We provide deep insights into Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Cloud Computing, Quantum Computing, Security Technology, Space Technology. Explore Disruptive/Exponential TechSecurity and ResiliencySecurity and resiliency topics include geopolitical and cyber risk, cyber conflict, cyber diplomacy, cybersecurity, nation state conflict, non-nation state conflict, global health, international crime, supply chain and terrorism. Explore Security and ResiliencyCommunityThe OODA community includes a broad group of decision-makers, analysts, entrepreneurs, government leaders and tech creators. Interact with and learn from your peers via online monthly meetings, OODA Salons, the OODAcast, in-person conferences and an online forum. For the most sensitive discussions interact with executive leaders via a closed Wickr channel. The community also has access to a member only video library. Explore The OODA Community Tags:Quantum


