SpaceX to launch 1st rocket of 2023 with 114 satellites aboard on Jan. 3 | Space
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works. Liftoff is set for 9:56 a.m. EST (1456 GMT).  SpaceX is ready to launch some belated New Year's fireworks of its own on Tuesday with a mission to fly 114 different satellites into orbit to kick off 2023. A Falcon 9 rocket from SpaceX will launch the company's epic Transporter-6 rideshare mission at 9:56 a.m. EST (1456 GMT) from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. You can watch the launch live here at Space.com in a livestream brought to you by EOS Data Analytics (EOSDA). The Transporter-6 mission will launch EOS SAT-1 for EOSDA on this mission; that's the first of seven agriculture-focused satellites for the company's new constellation. EOS SAT-1 will be the last of the 114 satellites to deploy during the Transporter-6 mission, according to a SpaceX mission timeline. "This launch brings new game-changing possibilities of satellite technologies to the agricultural industry. EOSDA will now work with proprietary datasets to provide even deeper and more accurate insights for its customers and partners," EOSDA CEO Artiom Anisimov said in a statement.  Related: 8 ways SpaceX has transformed spaceflight forever EOS SAT-1 is designed to scrutinize 386,000 miles (1 million square kilometers) daily using 11 bands of light. Examining the crop's health in this way is expected to allow farmers to better customize their care for the crops, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and water usage, among other benefits. The full EOS SAT fleet, when ready around 2025, will aim to look at 4.6 million square miles (12 million sq. km.) every day, which is about a third more than the equivalent area of the United States. The seven satellites, built by Dragonfly Aerospace, aim to reach 100 percent of countries "with the largest areas of farmlands and forestlands," EOSDA's statement added.   There are other satellite crops that will fly to space aboard Transporter-6 as well. For example, Spire Global plans to launch six satellites (opens in new tab) to expand its constellation monitoring maritime and aviation traffic using ADS-B technology.  Spaceflight Inc. plans to heft four Kleos spacecraft (opens in new tab) to a sun-synchronous orbit that keeps consistent lighting conditions below the fleet. Kleos examines radio frequency transmissions from space to search for "hidden and illegal activity", its website states (opens in new tab). The Transporter series of missions are "dedicated rideshares," meaning that they feature what may be dozens of small satellites flying to space on a single Falcon 9 rocket. SpaceX has not confirmed the full manifest of Transporter-6 on its website. The first mission of the series, Transporter-1, launched a record 143 satellites on Jan. 24, 2021. The Falcon 9 rocket for Transporter-6 has a first stage that is making its 15th flight. The booster previously launched SpaceX's Transporter-2 rideshare mission, three commercial satellite flights and 10 Starlink satellite missions, SpaceX has said. If all goes well, the booster should return to a landing pad at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station for a touchdown. Elizabeth Howell is the co-author of "Why Am I Taller (opens in new tab)?" (ECW Press, 2022; with Canadian astronaut Dave Williams), a book about space medicine. Follow her on Twitter @howellspace (opens in new tab). Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom (opens in new tab) or Facebook (opens in new tab). Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Elizabeth Howell, Ph.D., is a staff writer in the spaceflight channel since 2022. She was contributing writer for Space.com (opens in new tab) for 10 years before that, since 2012. Elizabeth's reporting includes an exclusive with Office of the Vice-President of the United States, speaking several times with the International Space Station, witnessing five human spaceflight launches on two continents, working inside a spacesuit, and participating in a simulated Mars mission. Her latest book, "Why Am I Taller?", is co-written with astronaut Dave Williams. Elizabeth holds a Ph.D. and M.Sc. in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota, a Bachelor of Journalism from Canada's Carleton University and (soon) a Bachelor of History from Athabasca University. Elizabeth is also a post-secondary instructor in communications and science since 2015. Elizabeth first got interested in space after watching the movie Apollo 13 in 1996, and still wants to be an astronaut someday. Mastodon: https://qoto.org/@howellspace Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab). ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 





Home


News


Spaceflight



Watch SpaceX launch 1st rocket of 2023 with EOS SAT-1 and 113 other satellites today!


By Elizabeth Howell last updated 3 January 2023 

Liftoff is set for 9:56 a.m. EST (1456 GMT). 




  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)



 




 (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)









Comments (0)







SpaceX is ready to launch some belated New Year's fireworks of its own on Tuesday with a mission to fly 114 different satellites into orbit to kick off 2023.A Falcon 9 rocket from SpaceX will launch the company's epic Transporter-6 rideshare mission at 9:56 a.m. EST (1456 GMT) from Cape Canaveral Space Force Station in Florida. You can watch the launch live here at Space.com in a livestream brought to you by EOS Data Analytics (EOSDA).The Transporter-6 mission will launch EOS SAT-1 for EOSDA on this mission; that's the first of seven agriculture-focused satellites for the company's new constellation. EOS SAT-1 will be the last of the 114 satellites to deploy during the Transporter-6 mission, according to a SpaceX mission timeline."This launch brings new game-changing possibilities of satellite technologies to the agricultural industry. EOSDA will now work with proprietary datasets to provide even deeper and more accurate insights for its customers and partners," EOSDA CEO Artiom Anisimov said in a statement. Related: 8 ways SpaceX has transformed spaceflight foreverEOS SAT-1 is designed to scrutinize 386,000 miles (1 million square kilometers) daily using 11 bands of light. Examining the crop's health in this way is expected to allow farmers to better customize their care for the crops, to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, energy consumption and water usage, among other benefits.The full EOS SAT fleet, when ready around 2025, will aim to look at 4.6 million square miles (12 million sq. km.) every day, which is about a third more than the equivalent area of the United States. The seven satellites, built by Dragonfly Aerospace, aim to reach 100 percent of countries "with the largest areas of farmlands and forestlands," EOSDA's statement added. Engineers prepare the EOSDA satellite EOS SAT-1, the first agriculture-focused analytics satellite in a 7-craft constellation, for launch.  (Image credit: EOSDA)There are other satellite crops that will fly to space aboard Transporter-6 as well. For example, Spire Global plans to launch six satellites (opens in new tab) to expand its constellation monitoring maritime and aviation traffic using ADS-B technology. Spaceflight Inc. plans to heft four Kleos spacecraft (opens in new tab) to a sun-synchronous orbit that keeps consistent lighting conditions below the fleet. Kleos examines radio frequency transmissions from space to search for "hidden and illegal activity", its website states (opens in new tab).The Transporter series of missions are "dedicated rideshares," meaning that they feature what may be dozens of small satellites flying to space on a single Falcon 9 rocket. SpaceX has not confirmed the full manifest of Transporter-6 on its website. The first mission of the series, Transporter-1, launched a record 143 satellites on Jan. 24, 2021.The Falcon 9 rocket for Transporter-6 has a first stage that is making its 15th flight. The booster previously launched SpaceX's Transporter-2 rideshare mission, three commercial satellite flights and 10 Starlink satellite missions, SpaceX has said. If all goes well, the booster should return to a landing pad at Cape Canaveral Space Force Station for a touchdown.Elizabeth Howell is the co-author of "Why Am I Taller (opens in new tab)?" (ECW Press, 2022; with Canadian astronaut Dave Williams), a book about space medicine. Follow her on Twitter @howellspace (opens in new tab). Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom (opens in new tab) or Facebook (opens in new tab).


Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com.

Elizabeth HowellStaff Writer, SpaceflightElizabeth Howell, Ph.D., is a staff writer in the spaceflight channel since 2022. She was contributing writer for Space.com (opens in new tab) for 10 years before that, since 2012. Elizabeth's reporting includes an exclusive with Office of the Vice-President of the United States, speaking several times with the International Space Station, witnessing five human spaceflight launches on two continents, working inside a spacesuit, and participating in a simulated Mars mission. Her latest book, "Why Am I Taller?", is co-written with astronaut Dave Williams. Elizabeth holds a Ph.D. and M.Sc. in Space Studies from the University of North Dakota, a Bachelor of Journalism from Canada's Carleton University and (soon) a Bachelor of History from Athabasca University. Elizabeth is also a post-secondary instructor in communications and science since 2015. Elizabeth first got interested in space after watching the movie Apollo 13 in 1996, and still wants to be an astronaut someday. Mastodon: https://qoto.org/@howellspace







See all comments (0)
















No comments yet

Comment from the forums
















