Ionospheric bubbles + blobs being investigated by two NASA smallsats – SatNews
SatNews January 2, 2023 Two CubeSats (smallsats) are on a quest to provide insight on space weather disturbances and the subsequent impact on communication signals — this dynamic duo, the Plasma Enhancements in the Ionosphere-Thermosphere Satellite (petitSat) and Scintillation Prediction Observations Research Task (SPORT), arrived at the International Space Station (ISS) on November 27, 2022, as part of SpaceX’s 26th commercial resupply mission for NASA.  Both of these smallsats deployed from ISS on December 29, 2022, at 8:55 a.m., EST. Scientists on both missions are most interested in studying a layer in Earth’s upper atmosphere known as the ionosphere, which is where the impacts of space weather on our technology are felt most strongly. The ionosphere is home to many satellites, including the ISS. Radio waves and GPS signals travel through the ionosphere, and variations there can interfere with, or even disrupt, communication signals. Space weather can also create electric currents that can induce electrical charge in orbiting satellites, and, in extreme cases, cause power outages on the ground. Day in and day out, the ionosphere is cooked by the Sun’s radiation into a soup of positively charged ions and negatively charged electrons, called plasma. Fluctuations in the ionosphere cause low-density and high-density regions — bubbles and blobs — to form in the plasma. These bubbles and blobs can scatter radio signals, sometimes sending them crashing into each other in a phenomenon called scintillation. The result is noisy radio signals, which can reduce the reliability of communication and navigation systems, or even disrupt signals completely. “If you put a pencil into a glass of water that’s half full, the pencil appears broken,” said Linda Habash Krause, the project scientist for SPORT at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. “What happens when you have bubbles? Similar to the pencil in the water, the signals go through ample bends.” Unfortunately, scientists do not understand exactly how the plasma bubbles and blobs arise. Once petitSat and SPORT are launched from the space station, the two CubeSats will use complementary scientific instruments to investigate the conditions that cause these disruptive features to form. “The idea is that the science teams will work together and cross compare,” said Jeff Klenzing, the principal investigator of petitSat at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland. SPORT is equipped with six instruments to make measurements throughout the ionosphere and these instruments will help determine the conditions that exist just before plasma bubbles form and, ultimately, how their evolution impacts ground-based communications signals. SPORT will transmit data back to the Brazilian National Institute for Space Research (INPE), where the data will be distributed to researchers at INPE, NASA, and other U.S. partners. In a complementary fashion, petitSat will work to determine what triggers plasma blobs, when they appear, or even how large a region they occupy. Both petitSat and SPORT will provide improved observations and insights into space weather phenomena which impact communications. These missions will collectively enhance understanding of the ever-changing space environment and amplify current capabilities of smallsats to directly benefit our society. The more we can earn about space weather — and how to predict it — the better we can protect our astronauts, spacecraft, and technology. Author: Matina Douzenis, NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland. Filed Under: Agencies, Brazil, Cubesats, Deployments, International Space Station (ISS), Ionospheric Environment, Launch, NASA, SmallSat  
Ionospheric bubbles + blobs being investigated by two NASA smallsats
January 2, 2023


Two CubeSats (smallsats) are on a quest to provide insight on space weather disturbances and the subsequent impact on communication signals — this dynamic duo, the Plasma Enhancements in the Ionosphere-Thermosphere Satellite (petitSat) and Scintillation Prediction Observations Research Task (SPORT), arrived at the International Space Station (ISS) on November 27, 2022, as part of SpaceX’s 26th commercial resupply mission for NASA. 

The Goddard-led petitSat team is basing its mission on a 6U CubeSat — Dellingr. Goddard engineers developed this smallsat to show that CubeSats could be both reliable and cost effective also while gathering compelling scientific data. The black-colored device at the top of the Dellingr 3-D model depicts the Ion-Neutral Mass Spectrometer that also is flying on petitSat. Credit: NASA/W. Hrybyk
Both of these smallsats deployed from ISS on December 29, 2022, at 8:55 a.m., EST.
PetitSat is flying a version of the Goddard-developed Ion-Neutral Mass Spectrometer (left) and the university-provided Gridded Retarding Ion Drift Sensor. Credit: NASA
Scientists on both missions are most interested in studying a layer in Earth’s upper atmosphere known as the ionosphere, which is where the impacts of space weather on our technology are felt most strongly. The ionosphere is home to many satellites, including the ISS. Radio waves and GPS signals travel through the ionosphere, and variations there can interfere with, or even disrupt, communication signals. Space weather can also create electric currents that can induce electrical charge in orbiting satellites, and, in extreme cases, cause power outages on the ground.
Day in and day out, the ionosphere is cooked by the Sun’s radiation into a soup of positively charged ions and negatively charged electrons, called plasma. Fluctuations in the ionosphere cause low-density and high-density regions — bubbles and blobs — to form in the plasma. These bubbles and blobs can scatter radio signals, sometimes sending them crashing into each other in a phenomenon called scintillation. The result is noisy radio signals, which can reduce the reliability of communication and navigation systems, or even disrupt signals completely.

Image of Hurricane Dorian as seen from the International Space Station View of Hurricane Dorian, a weather phenomenon that impacts communications or navigation systems that astronauts utilize. Photo taken on September 2 from ISS. Credits: NASA/Christina Koch
“If you put a pencil into a glass of water that’s half full, the pencil appears broken,” said Linda Habash Krause, the project scientist for SPORT at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama. “What happens when you have bubbles? Similar to the pencil in the water, the signals go through ample bends.”

Unfortunately, scientists do not understand exactly how the plasma bubbles and blobs arise. Once petitSat and SPORT are launched from the space station, the two CubeSats will use complementary scientific instruments to investigate the conditions that cause these disruptive features to form.
“The idea is that the science teams will work together and cross compare,” said Jeff Klenzing, the principal investigator of petitSat at NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center in Greenbelt, Maryland.
SPORT is equipped with six instruments to make measurements throughout the ionosphere and these instruments will help determine the conditions that exist just before plasma bubbles form and, ultimately, how their evolution impacts ground-based communications signals. SPORT will transmit data back to the Brazilian National Institute for Space Research (INPE), where the data will be distributed to researchers at INPE, NASA, and other U.S. partners.
In a complementary fashion, petitSat will work to determine what triggers plasma blobs, when they appear, or even how large a region they occupy.
Both petitSat and SPORT will provide improved observations and insights into space weather phenomena which impact communications. These missions will collectively enhance understanding of the ever-changing space environment and amplify current capabilities of smallsats to directly benefit our society.
The more we can earn about space weather — and how to predict it — the better we can protect our astronauts, spacecraft, and technology.
Author: Matina Douzenis, NASA’s Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, Maryland.
Filed Under: Agencies, Brazil, Cubesats, Deployments, International Space Station (ISS), Ionospheric Environment, Launch, NASA, SmallSat 


