Storage In Outer Space
Article: Footprint of astronaut on the moon with earth above the horizon.  As people do more in outer space, they will need IT resources nearer to them to avoid long latencies. We have written in the past about start-ups that want to put data centers in orbit around the earth (such as Cloud Constellation). Earlier in 2022 Lonestar Data Holdings announced that it wants to build a data center on the Moon for backing up the world’s data and also supporting lunar edge processing needs. Taiwan-based SSD controller and storage product company Phison announced that their SSDs have been certified to be used in lunar data centers. Let’s look closer at these developments. Lonestar wants to archive data on the moon in its lunar data centers to protect that data from human or natural damage and data loss. In addition, as more activities are done on the moon that generate data or need data processing, having a lunar data center facility will avoid the latency and energy consumption penalties from sending that data back to the earth. Because the Moon is tidally locked with the earth and one face always faces the earth, direct line of sight communication will be possible with a data center on the moon. The company has signed contracts for prototype demonstrations of its systems on two lunar landers launched by NASA’s Commercial Lunar Payload Services program. In the latter half of 2023 NASA will send a Nova-C lander to the Moon’s South Pole on an Artemis spacecraft that is scheduled to include a hardware prototype from Lonestar. This is to be a one-kilogram storage device with 16TB of storage. Lonestar plans to do upload and download tests as well as running some applications on this lunar hardware using communication with radio signals. The company has talked about launching servers that can hold several petabytes of data in 2024 and 50PB by 2026 with data rates of 15Gb/s data rates. The company plans to use robots to install its hardware in lava tubes on the moon to shield its servers from wide swings in temperature and cosmic radiation. Skycorp, Lonestar’s space logistics company, selected Phison to supply the storage for the Lonestar 2023 mission. In order to qualify Phison’s 8TB M.2 SSD had to pass NASA Technology Readiness Level 6 (TRL-6) certification (see image below). This included running the product in deep cryogenic temperatures and in vacuum as well as electromagnetic environment testing and vibration and shock testing to simulate launching and landing. Phison 8TB SSD for Space  Phison has had its storage devices included in other space missions. The company made an 8GB SSD used on the Mars Perseverance Rover and a 4TB SSD in Skycorp’s RISC-V computer on the International Space Station. The company includes extra shielding to reduce the risk of radiation damaging data in the NAND data cells for space qualified SSDs. As people do more in space they will need to process and storage data in outer space. Lonestar Data Holdings plans to send a small server into space during a second half 2023 NASA lunar landing mission using 8TB SSDs from Phison. Lonestar plans to store many PBs of data on the moon later this decade. 
Article: More From ForbesDec 27, 2022,01:56pm ESTMarket Data Sales Are Becoming More Collaborative, Says Burton-TaylorDec 27, 2022,12:02am ESTDeveloping One’s Inner Data ScientistDec 26, 2022,06:41pm ESTBanks Must Prepare For Recession, And Recovery, Says ForresterDec 24, 2022,05:09pm ESTDigital Storage And Memory Projections For 2023, Part 2Dec 23, 2022,07:17pm ESTArtificial Intelligence’s Paradoxes: Easy But Hard To Implement, Lacking Talent But Easing Talent ShortagesDec 23, 2022,03:44pm ESTPayment Apps Score Well At Impaakt While Banks Lose Points Over Fossil Fuel FundingDec 22, 2022,03:56pm ESTWaFd Bank And AWS Improved Phone Contact CenterEdit StoryForbesInnovationEnterprise TechStorage In Outer SpaceTom CoughlinContributorOpinions expressed by Forbes Contributors are their own.FollowingNew!
Follow this author to stay notified about their latest stories. 
Got it!New!
Click on the conversation bubble to join the conversation 
Got it!Dec 27, 2022,11:26pm EST|Press play to listen to this article!
Got it!Share to FacebookShare to TwitterShare to LinkedinFootprint of astronaut on the moon with earth above the horizon. getty
As people do more in outer space, they will need IT resources nearer to them to avoid long latencies. We have written in the past about start-ups that want to put data centers in orbit around the earth (such as Cloud Constellation). Earlier in 2022 Lonestar Data Holdings announced that it wants to build a data center on the Moon for backing up the world’s data and also supporting lunar edge processing needs. Taiwan-based SSD controller and storage product company Phison announced that their SSDs have been certified to be used in lunar data centers. Let’s look closer at these developments.


Lonestar wants to archive data on the moon in its lunar data centers to protect that data from human or natural damage and data loss. In addition, as more activities are done on the moon that generate data or need data processing, having a lunar data center facility will avoid the latency and energy consumption penalties from sending that data back to the earth.

Because the Moon is tidally locked with the earth and one face always faces the earth, direct line of sight communication will be possible with a data center on the moon. The company has signed contracts for prototype demonstrations of its systems on two lunar landers launched by NASA’s Commercial Lunar Payload Services program. In the latter half of 2023 NASA will send a Nova-C lander to the Moon’s South Pole on an Artemis spacecraft that is scheduled to include a hardware prototype from Lonestar. This is to be a one-kilogram storage device with 16TB of storage.


Lonestar plans to do upload and download tests as well as running some applications on this lunar hardware using communication with radio signals. The company has talked about launching servers that can hold several petabytes of data in 2024 and 50PB by 2026 with data rates of 15Gb/s data rates. The company plans to use robots to install its hardware in lava tubes on the moon to shield its servers from wide swings in temperature and cosmic radiation.

Skycorp, Lonestar’s space logistics company, selected Phison to supply the storage for the Lonestar 2023 mission. In order to qualify Phison’s 8TB M.2 SSD had to pass NASA Technology Readiness Level 6 (TRL-6) certification (see image below). This included running the product in deep cryogenic temperatures and in vacuum as well as electromagnetic environment testing and vibration and shock testing to simulate launching and landing.
MORE FOR YOUWhy The Rock's Social Media Muscle Made Him Hollywood's Highest-Paid ActorForget Inflation, Apartment Rentals Will Get Worse Before BetterGovernor DeSantis, Larry Fink, And The ESG Debate: How Climate Policy Could Avoid Culture WarsPhison 8TB SSD for Space Phison Announcement

Phison has had its storage devices included in other space missions. The company made an 8GB SSD used on the Mars Perseverance Rover and a 4TB SSD in Skycorp’s RISC-V computer on the International Space Station. The company includes extra shielding to reduce the risk of radiation damaging data in the NAND data cells for space qualified SSDs.


As people do more in space they will need to process and storage data in outer space. Lonestar Data Holdings plans to send a small server into space during a second half 2023 NASA lunar landing mission using 8TB SSDs from Phison. Lonestar plans to store many PBs of data on the moon later this decade.
Follow me on Twitter or LinkedIn. Check out my website. Tom CoughlinEditorial StandardsPrintReprints & Permissions
Article: 
Article: 
Article: 