China's last launch of 2022 sparks falling rocket debris warning from Philippine Space Agency | Space
When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Here’s how it works. The Philippine Space Agency warned agencies to take "precautionary measures related to expected unburned debris" from the rocket. China's last space launch of 2022, which lifted off on Thursday (Dec. 29), has prompted a warning of falling rocket space debris from the Philippine Space Agency. A Chinese Long March 3B rocket launched from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center Thursday carrying the Shiyan-10 02 satellite to be used for in-orbit verification of new space technologies, such as space environment monitoring.

Related: The 12 biggest rocket failures of 2022  After the launch, the Philippine Space Agency (PhilSA) recommended "precautionary measures related to expected unburned debris from the Long March 3B rocket" in a statement (opens in new tab). PhilSA officials issued the advisory to all relevant government agencies on the estimated drop zone area and proposed the issuance of appropriate warnings on air and marine access. The launch vehicle leftovers, such as the rocket boosters and payload fairing, were projected to fall within a drop zone area located within the vicinity of Recto bank. "While not projected to fall on land features or inhabited areas within the Philippine territory, falling debris poses danger and potential risk to ships, aircraft, fishing boats, and other vessels that will pass through the drop zone," according to a PhilSA statement. Related: The biggest spacecraft to fall uncontrolled from space  The actual drop zone area, PhilSA added, may change because of various factors such as the Earth's rotation, weather and climate conditions. "There is also a possibility for the debris to float around the area and wash toward nearby coasts. Furthermore, the possibility of an uncontrolled re-entry to the atmosphere of the rocket’s upper stages returning from outer space cannot be ruled out at this time," PhilSA stated. PhilSA reiterated its earlier public advisory to immediately inform local authorities if suspected debris is sighted. PhilSA also cautioned the public against retrieving or coming in close contact with these materials that may contain remnants of toxic substances such as rocket fuel. China's Long March 3B launch on Thursday was the country's second launch of the week.  On Tuesday (Dec. 27), the country launched  Gaofen-11 04 satellite from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center. Gaofen-11 04 is an Earth-observation satellite designed to be used for "land resources surveying, urban planning, road network design, crop yield estimation and disaster relief," according to China Central Television. Leonard David is author of the book "Moon Rush: The New Space Race (opens in new tab)," published by National Geographic in May 2019. A longtime writer for Space.com, David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades.Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom or on Facebook (opens in new tab).   Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com. Leonard David is an award-winning space journalist who has been reporting on space activities for more than 50 years. Currently writing as Space.com's Space Insider Columnist among his other projects, Leonard has authored numerous books on space exploration, Mars missions and more, with his latest being "Moon Rush: The New Space Race" published in 2019 by National Geographic. He also wrote "Mars: Our Future on the Red Planet" released in 2016 by National Geographic. Leonard  has served as a correspondent for SpaceNews, Scientific American and Aerospace America for the AIAA. He was received many awards, including the first Ordway Award for Sustained Excellence in Spaceflight History in 2015 at the AAS Wernher von Braun Memorial Symposium. You can find out Leonard's latest project at his website and on Twitter. Space is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site (opens in new tab). ©
Future US, Inc. Full 7th Floor, 130 West 42nd Street,
New York,
NY 10036. 








Home


News


Spaceflight



China's last launch of 2022 sparks falling rocket debris warning from Philippine Space Agency


By Leonard David published 29 December 2022 

The Philippine Space Agency warned agencies to take "precautionary measures related to expected unburned debris" from the rocket.




  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)



 




 (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)



  (opens in new tab)









Comments (0)







China's last space launch of 2022, which lifted off on Thursday (Dec. 29), has prompted a warning of falling rocket space debris from the Philippine Space Agency.A Chinese Long March 3B rocket launched from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center Thursday carrying the Shiyan-10 02 satellite to be used for in-orbit verification of new space technologies, such as space environment monitoring.

Related: The 12 biggest rocket failures of 2022A Chinese Long March 3B rocket lifts off from the Xichang Satellite Launch Center carrying the Shiyan-10 02 satellite on Dec. 29, 2022. (Image credit: CAST)Unburned rocket debrisAfter the launch, the Philippine Space Agency (PhilSA) recommended "precautionary measures related to expected unburned debris from the Long March 3B rocket" in a statement (opens in new tab).PhilSA officials issued the advisory to all relevant government agencies on the estimated drop zone area and proposed the issuance of appropriate warnings on air and marine access. The launch vehicle leftovers, such as the rocket boosters and payload fairing, were projected to fall within a drop zone area located within the vicinity of Recto bank."While not projected to fall on land features or inhabited areas within the Philippine territory, falling debris poses danger and potential risk to ships, aircraft, fishing boats, and other vessels that will pass through the drop zone," according to a PhilSA statement.Related: The biggest spacecraft to fall uncontrolled from spaceThis map released by the Philippine Space Agency shows the danger zone for potential rocket debris from China's Long March 3B launch on Dec. 29, 2022. (Image credit: Phillipine Space Agency)The actual drop zone area, PhilSA added, may change because of various factors such as the Earth's rotation, weather and climate conditions."There is also a possibility for the debris to float around the area and wash toward nearby coasts. Furthermore, the possibility of an uncontrolled re-entry to the atmosphere of the rocket’s upper stages returning from outer space cannot be ruled out at this time," PhilSA stated.PhilSA reiterated its earlier public advisory to immediately inform local authorities if suspected debris is sighted. PhilSA also cautioned the public against retrieving or coming in close contact with these materials that may contain remnants of toxic substances such as rocket fuel.China's Long March 3B launch on Thursday was the country's second launch of the week. On Tuesday (Dec. 27), the country launched  Gaofen-11 04 satellite from the Taiyuan Satellite Launch Center. Gaofen-11 04 is an Earth-observation satellite designed to be used for "land resources surveying, urban planning, road network design, crop yield estimation and disaster relief," according to China Central Television.Leonard David is author of the book "Moon Rush: The New Space Race (opens in new tab)," published by National Geographic in May 2019. A longtime writer for Space.com, David has been reporting on the space industry for more than five decades.Follow us on Twitter @Spacedotcom or on Facebook (opens in new tab).  


Join our Space Forums to keep talking space on the latest missions, night sky and more! And if you have a news tip, correction or comment, let us know at: community@space.com.

Leonard DavidSpace Insider ColumnistLeonard David is an award-winning space journalist who has been reporting on space activities for more than 50 years. Currently writing as Space.com's Space Insider Columnist among his other projects, Leonard has authored numerous books on space exploration, Mars missions and more, with his latest being "Moon Rush: The New Space Race" published in 2019 by National Geographic. He also wrote "Mars: Our Future on the Red Planet" released in 2016 by National Geographic. Leonard  has served as a correspondent for SpaceNews, Scientific American and Aerospace America for the AIAA. He was received many awards, including the first Ordway Award for Sustained Excellence in Spaceflight History in 2015 at the AAS Wernher von Braun Memorial Symposium. You can find out Leonard's latest project at his website and on Twitter.







See all comments (0)
















No comments yet

Comment from the forums
















