KULR Technology Group Partners With Theory Racing to Develop Next-Generation E-Bike Batteries
Company Takes Technological Safety Advancements Derived from NASA-Proven Thermal Solutions to Mountain and City Commuter E-Bikes SAN DIEGO, Dec. 29, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- KULR Technology Group, Inc. (NYSE American: KULR) (the "Company" or "KULR"), a leading energy management platform company accelerating the global transition to a sustainable electrification economy, today announced a partnership with Theory Racing (“Theory”), a leading World Cup Enduro racing team. The partnership with Theory comes on the heels of the Company announcing that it will introduce its all-new modular energy storage platform, KULR ONE, at CES 2023 this January 5-8. KULR ONE is a family of next-generation battery packs bringing a combination of safety, performance, intelligence, modularity and reliability to the world's most demanding applications.​ “Collaborating with a leader in the mountain bike racing space, like Theory Racing, is a natural progression in KULR’s vision to support the global electrification movement,” said KULR’s CEO and Co-Founder, Michael Mo. “Working alongside Director Nic Bean and the Theory Racing team is a terrific opportunity for us to expand into high volume consumer applications as we evolve our NASA-proven battery safety technology to better service the e-bike industry.” As the micro-mobility category becomes more prevalent, there is an increasing need for safe battery solutions, especially among e-bikes. This partnership allows KULR to build upon its rigorous thermal management expertise by optimizing state-of-the-art technology with high-performance e-bikes. The advancement of KULR’s technology in the e-bike space has the potential to serve and transform a number of ever-expanding industries including general urban transportation, e-mobility sporting, and food and product delivery. According to Precedence Research, the global battery management system market size is projected to surpass USD 35.14 billion by 2030 and growing at a registered CAGR of 21.22% over the forecast period 2022 to 2030. “We are thrilled to be partnering with KULR Technology. We are confident that by combining our expertise and resources, we will be able to write the next chapter in performance e-bike battery systems and help take the power, safety, and efficiency of e-bike batteries to new heights,” said Theory Racing Director, Nic Bean. “In addition, KULR’s sponsorship of the Theory Global Enduro program highlights their dedication to the sport and their focus on stress testing products at the highest levels. We can't wait to see what the future holds for this exciting partnership.” KULR will serve as Theory’s primary sponsor at the World Cup Enduro Tour, a global competition to showcase the future of top mountain bike talents. The Theory Global Enduro Program is a World Cup Enduro team that features top riders such as Julie Duvert and Carter Krasney who have proven to be competitive at the top of the sport internationally. KULR’s support will help push the Theory team to new heights, while electrifying their traveling infrastructure. Theory will also be available at CES 2023, January 5-8, supporting KULR’s new commercial product releases at booth #6357 in the West Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center. About KULR Technology Group Inc.KULR Technology Group Inc. (NYSE American: KULR) is a leading energy management platform offering proven solutions that play a critical role in accelerating the electrification of the circular economy. Leveraging a foundation in developing, manufacturing, and licensing next-generation carbon fiber thermal management technologies for batteries and electronic systems, KULR has evolved its holistic suite of products and services to enable its customers across disciplines to operate with efficiency and sustainability in mind. For more information, please visit www.kulrtechnology.com. Safe Harbor StatementThis release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of offers to buy any securities of any entity. This release contains certain forward-looking statements based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this release are based on information available to us as of the date hereof. Our actual results may differ materially from those stated or implied in such forward-looking statements, due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, which include the risk factors disclosed in our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 2022. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future and can be identified by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “should,” and “would” or similar words. All forecasts are provided by management in this release are based on information available at this time and management expects that internal projections and expectations may change over time. In addition, the forecasts are entirely on management’s best estimate of our future financial performance given our current contracts, current backlog of opportunities and conversations with new and existing customers about our products and services. We assume no obligation to update the information included in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Investor Relations: Tom Colton or John Yi Gateway GroupMain: (949) 574-3860 KULR@gatewayir.com Public Relations:Robert Collins / Zach Kadletz / Anna Rutter Gateway GroupMain: (949) 574-3860 KULR@gatewayir.com Brokers and Analysts:Chesapeake Group Main: (410) 825-3930 info@chesapeakegp.com   The highest ranking seasonal number was back number’s “Christmas Song.” Chorus Aviation Inc. ("Chorus") (TSX: CHR) today announced that it has closed the redemption of $115,000,000 principal amount of Chorus' 6.00% Senior Debentures due December 31, 2024 (the "Debentures"), representing all of the Debentures that were outstanding immediately prior to the redemption. Chorus previously announced its intention to redeem the Debentures on December 14, 2022. Don't pay your auto insurance bill until you read this. (NYSE: KFS) Kingsway Financial Services Inc. ("Kingsway" or the "Company") today announced it has closed on the sale of the railyard it owns in Texas. TRT Leaseco, LLC, an indirect subsidiary of the Company and direct owner of the railyard, completed the sale to BNSF Dayton LLC, who also assumed the mortgage. The total sales price was $215.2 million – consisting of $44.5 million cash and $170.7 million of mortgage assumption – netting proceeds of $21.4 million to Kingsway after taxes, fees and d The Brazilian soccer star also leaves a legacy as a singer-songwriter. The Packers cornerback didn't hold back when talking about Jefferson Millions of Americans are using this to save on their rising energy bills! Actress Valerie Bertinelli shared surveillance video footage on social media that she said showed two men who were casing her Studio City home. Sonic had a red letter year in 2022, Team Sonic lead Takashi Iizuka said, with even more in store for the blue blur in 2023 Here is the updated injury report for the Colts and Giants in Week 17. Schedule a mobile vet visit and get exceptional pet care in the comfort of your own home. Denver, CO, Dec. 29, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Mitch Jelniker, veteran television anchor with Denver7, has joined M&C Communications, a national public relations agency with a specialty in Brand Protection PR™. As a Denver news fixture for 23 years, Jelniker served as a news anchor and reporter for ABC’s Denver7. Prior to joining M&C Communications, he was the corporate relations manager for the Food Bank of the Rockies for three years. He is an alumnus of Colorado State University and a member o The soccer legend passed away in São Paolo, Brazil, on December 29, 2022. Sean Payton has been linked to the Broncos coach search by multiple reports, but that interest may be one-sided. At the end of the day, Payton has to actually want the job: Think you're getting the best deal when you shop online? Don't buy a single thing until you try this — you won't regret it. Pete Golding fully expects to be back as Alabama's DC for the 2023 season. In its last nonconference game of the year, the Ohio State basketball team used a second-half surge to beat Alabama A&M on Thursday. Illinois reported 3,348 new COVID-19 cases and 22 new deaths Thursday. Everybody recognizes these company mascots, but it takes a photographic memory to score over 70% It is the final week of the year and for many, that means its a period of reflection. The English fashion designer and punk queen was 81 years old. The Thunder are back on TNT. High speed internet doesn't have to cost you a fortune. Find out if providers near you offer senior prices! The alfalfa sprouts were sold in three states, including Nebraska where health officials are investigating a salmonella outbreak. Police in Miami-Dade were investigating a shooting that left a man with life threatening injuries. Police were called to the 1000 block of NW 60th Street shortly after 4 p.m. for a report of gunfire. Dame Vivienne Westwood, the legendary British fashion designer, has died at the age of 81.
GlobeNewswireKULR Technology Group Partners With Theory Racing to Develop Next-Generation E-Bike BatteriesRead full articleKULR Technology Group, Inc.December 29, 2022, 5:45 AM·4 min readKULR Technology Group, Inc.Company Takes Technological Safety Advancements Derived from NASA-Proven Thermal Solutions to Mountain and City Commuter E-BikesSAN DIEGO, Dec. 29, 2022 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- KULR Technology Group, Inc. (NYSE American: KULR) (the "Company" or "KULR"), a leading energy management platform company accelerating the global transition to a sustainable electrification economy, today announced a partnership with Theory Racing (“Theory”), a leading World Cup Enduro racing team.The partnership with Theory comes on the heels of the Company announcing that it will introduce its all-new modular energy storage platform, KULR ONE, at CES 2023 this January 5-8. KULR ONE is a family of next-generation battery packs bringing a combination of safety, performance, intelligence, modularity and reliability to the world's most demanding applications.​“Collaborating with a leader in the mountain bike racing space, like Theory Racing, is a natural progression in KULR’s vision to support the global electrification movement,” said KULR’s CEO and Co-Founder, Michael Mo. “Working alongside Director Nic Bean and the Theory Racing team is a terrific opportunity for us to expand into high volume consumer applications as we evolve our NASA-proven battery safety technology to better service the e-bike industry.”As the micro-mobility category becomes more prevalent, there is an increasing need for safe battery solutions, especially among e-bikes. This partnership allows KULR to build upon its rigorous thermal management expertise by optimizing state-of-the-art technology with high-performance e-bikes. The advancement of KULR’s technology in the e-bike space has the potential to serve and transform a number of ever-expanding industries including general urban transportation, e-mobility sporting, and food and product delivery.According to Precedence Research, the global battery management system market size is projected to surpass USD 35.14 billion by 2030 and growing at a registered CAGR of 21.22% over the forecast period 2022 to 2030.Story continues“We are thrilled to be partnering with KULR Technology. We are confident that by combining our expertise and resources, we will be able to write the next chapter in performance e-bike battery systems and help take the power, safety, and efficiency of e-bike batteries to new heights,” said Theory Racing Director, Nic Bean. “In addition, KULR’s sponsorship of the Theory Global Enduro program highlights their dedication to the sport and their focus on stress testing products at the highest levels. We can't wait to see what the future holds for this exciting partnership.”KULR will serve as Theory’s primary sponsor at the World Cup Enduro Tour, a global competition to showcase the future of top mountain bike talents. The Theory Global Enduro Program is a World Cup Enduro team that features top riders such as Julie Duvert and Carter Krasney who have proven to be competitive at the top of the sport internationally. KULR’s support will help push the Theory team to new heights, while electrifying their traveling infrastructure.Theory will also be available at CES 2023, January 5-8, supporting KULR’s new commercial product releases at booth #6357 in the West Hall of the Las Vegas Convention Center.About KULR Technology Group Inc.KULR Technology Group Inc. (NYSE American: KULR) is a leading energy management platform offering proven solutions that play a critical role in accelerating the electrification of the circular economy. Leveraging a foundation in developing, manufacturing, and licensing next-generation carbon fiber thermal management technologies for batteries and electronic systems, KULR has evolved its holistic suite of products and services to enable its customers across disciplines to operate with efficiency and sustainability in mind. For more information, please visit www.kulrtechnology.com.Safe Harbor StatementThis release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of offers to buy any securities of any entity. This release contains certain forward-looking statements based on our current expectations, forecasts and assumptions that involve risks and uncertainties. Forward-looking statements in this release are based on information available to us as of the date hereof. Our actual results may differ materially from those stated or implied in such forward-looking statements, due to risks and uncertainties associated with our business, which include the risk factors disclosed in our Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 28, 2022. Forward-looking statements include statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions, or strategies regarding the future and can be identified by forward-looking words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “should,” and “would” or similar words. All forecasts are provided by management in this release are based on information available at this time and management expects that internal projections and expectations may change over time. In addition, the forecasts are entirely on management’s best estimate of our future financial performance given our current contracts, current backlog of opportunities and conversations with new and existing customers about our products and services. We assume no obligation to update the information included in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Investor Relations: Tom Colton or John Yi Gateway GroupMain: (949) 574-3860 KULR@gatewayir.comPublic Relations:Robert Collins / Zach Kadletz / Anna Rutter Gateway GroupMain: (949) 574-3860 KULR@gatewayir.comBrokers and Analysts:Chesapeake Group Main: (410) 825-3930 info@chesapeakegp.comAdvertisementTRENDING 1. Biden outpacing Trump, Obama with diverse judicial nominees 2. At least 19 killed in casino fire as victims jump from ledge 3. Jan. 6 transcripts: Guilfoyle demands $60k, White House chief burns docs, white nationalist pleads 5th 4. 'Varsity Blues' mastermind Rick Singer pleads for leniency with sentence 5. A Buffalo woman found a stranger crying for help in the blizzard with a tote bag frozen to his hands. She scrapped her Christmas plans to care for him.Advertisement


