Upcoming Planetary Science Research Position at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center | Planetary News
The Heliophysics and Planetary Science Branch at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, will soon be seeking a scientist to conduct research and to develop applications to solve challenging planetary science problems. The selected candidate will add substantive capability synergistic with the current staff and the goals of NASA’s Artemis program and MSFC’s strategy to integrate human space flight and science robotic capabilities in the Artemis era. The position is expected to be announced in January 2023 under the category of Research Space Scientist, at the GS-13 or GS-14 grade level, depending on qualifications. An outstanding candidate will be offered federal employment, joining more than 30 other federal employees, academic staff, and contractors supporting planetary science efforts within the branch, a subset of the Science Research and Projects Division and the Science and Technology Office at Marshall Space Flight Center. The incumbent planetary scientist will have expertise in remote and/or in-situ sensing of planets, moons, and asteroids, and in the application and development of advanced tools, techniques, and/or data analysis/mining/machine learning techniques. The candidate will be expected to lead the development of research proposals for new activities, lead a research team, execute funded projects, participate in conferences, have a demonstrated publication record, and author research papers in peer-reviewed literature. The formal announcement of the opportunity and requirements will be posted at USAJobs (www.usajobs.gov) and can be found by searching with keyword NASA and location Huntsville, Alabama. Applications are only accepted through the USAJobs portal. Note that when answering the opportunity, it is extremely important to review and address the Specialized Experience under Qualifications in detail. Candidates are encouraged to create a USAJobs profile well in advance to populate a resume and to add documents. USAJobs-alert subscriptions are possible with alerts received via email. Informal inquiries can be directed to Dr. David McKenzie at david.e.mckenzie@nasa.gov or 256-961-7896.


Upcoming Planetary Science Research Position at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center


The Heliophysics and Planetary Science Branch at NASA’s Marshall Space Flight Center in Huntsville, Alabama, will soon be seeking a scientist to conduct research and to develop applications to solve challenging planetary science problems. The selected candidate will add substantive capability synergistic with the current staff and the goals of NASA’s Artemis program and MSFC’s strategy to integrate human space flight and science robotic capabilities in the Artemis era. The position is expected to be announced in January 2023 under the category of Research Space Scientist, at the GS-13 or GS-14 grade level, depending on qualifications.
An outstanding candidate will be offered federal employment, joining more than 30 other federal employees, academic staff, and contractors supporting planetary science efforts within the branch, a subset of the Science Research and Projects Division and the Science and Technology Office at Marshall Space Flight Center.
The incumbent planetary scientist will have expertise in remote and/or in-situ sensing of planets, moons, and asteroids, and in the application and development of advanced tools, techniques, and/or data analysis/mining/machine learning techniques. The candidate will be expected to lead the development of research proposals for new activities, lead a research team, execute funded projects, participate in conferences, have a demonstrated publication record, and author research papers in peer-reviewed literature.
The formal announcement of the opportunity and requirements will be posted at USAJobs (www.usajobs.gov) and can be found by searching with keyword NASA and location Huntsville, Alabama. Applications are only accepted through the USAJobs portal. Note that when answering the opportunity, it is extremely important to review and address the Specialized Experience under Qualifications in detail. Candidates are encouraged to create a USAJobs profile well in advance to populate a resume and to add documents. USAJobs-alert subscriptions are possible with alerts received via email. Informal inquiries can be directed to Dr. David McKenzie at david.e.mckenzie@nasa.gov or 256-961-7896.
 

			This entry was posted in Job Opportunities on 2022-12-29 by Planetary News contributor.								



