2022 too short, too far: DTE’s reportage on global scientific research 
 Down To Earth recaps the primary environment, health and developmental news from 2022
  Science marched on in the year 2022, with several new discoveries in the fields of physics, chemistry, biology and other disciplines. We learnt about whether the human race would actually go extinct due to the disappearing Y chromosome. There were strides in the field of using animal organs in humans. Finally, there were developments in the field of space science.
Below is a selection of Down To Earth stories on scientific developments worldwide:
A new study found that there was hope after all, despite the rapid disappearance of the Y chromosome among humans. 
Read more: Men are slowly losing their Y chromosome, but a new sex gene discovery in spiny rats brings hope for humanity
A mysterious and intensely bright flash of light coming from halfway across the universe earlier in 2022 had stunned astronomers worldwide. The source of the intense beam was later identified as a supermassive black hole ripping apart a star, pointing directly at Earth.
Read more: What’s the mysterious light up above? A supermassive black hole ripping a star apart
European scientists revived an approximately 50,000-year-old ‘zombie virus’ from a frozen lake in Russia.
Read more: Scientists revive approximately 50,000-year-old ‘zombie virus’ from frozen lake in Russia
The world saw a rise in cases of cyclones merging to form megacyclones, courtesy warming oceans. This is known as the ‘Fujiwhara Effect’. 
Read more: Perfect storm: What is the Fujiwhara Effect?
A 57-year-old recipient who had received a pig-to-human heart transplant in January 2022, lived for 61 days after the transplant. Doctors are slowly trying to piece together why the patient could not survive. 
Read more: Genetically modified pig heart took longer than usual to beat for human receiver: Scientists
Scientists dug up fragments of deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as DNA, in the Scotia Sea, north of the Antarctic continent. The DNA is a million years old and makes it possible to study the responses of ocean ecosystems to climate change.
Read more: A million-year-old marine DNA can reveal how climate change will affect Antarctica
A pre-existing moon likely left Saturn with its bright rings and extreme tilt, according to a new study. 
Read more: Saturn’s mysterious rings & extreme tilt: Former moon may be responsible
Several undiscovered ant species are likely hiding in the Western Ghats, the Himalayas and North East India, according to a global ant biodiversity map.
Read more: ‘Treasure map’ of ants may help experts discover new species in India
Experiments on mice showed that sound increases pain tolerance. 
Read more: Can Mozart Sonatas lessen pain? Yes, say authors of new study Science marched on in the year 2022, with several new discoveries in the fields of physics, chemistry, biology and other disciplines. We learnt about whether the human race would actually go extinct due to the disappearing Y chromosome. There were strides in the field of using animal organs in humans. Finally, there were developments in the field of space science. Below is a selection of Down To Earth stories on scientific developments worldwide: A new study found that there was hope after all, despite the rapid disappearance of the Y chromosome among humans.  A mysterious and intensely bright flash of light coming from halfway across the universe earlier in 2022 had stunned astronomers worldwide. The source of the intense beam was later identified as a supermassive black hole ripping apart a star, pointing directly at Earth. European scientists revived an approximately 50,000-year-old ‘zombie virus’ from a frozen lake in Russia. The world saw a rise in cases of cyclones merging to form megacyclones, courtesy warming oceans. This is known as the ‘Fujiwhara Effect’.  A 57-year-old recipient who had received a pig-to-human heart transplant in January 2022, lived for 61 days after the transplant. Doctors are slowly trying to piece together why the patient could not survive.  Scientists dug up fragments of deoxyribonucleic acid, also known as DNA, in the Scotia Sea, north of the Antarctic continent. The DNA is a million years old and makes it possible to study the responses of ocean ecosystems to climate change. A pre-existing moon likely left Saturn with its bright rings and extreme tilt, according to a new study.  Several undiscovered ant species are likely hiding in the Western Ghats, the Himalayas and North East India, according to a global ant biodiversity map. Experiments on mice showed that sound increases pain tolerance.  We are a voice to you; you have been a support to us. Together we build journalism that is independent, credible and fearless. You can further help us by making a donation. This will mean a lot for our ability to bring you news, perspectives and analysis from the ground so that we can make change together. Comments are moderated and will be published only after the site moderator’s approval. Please use a genuine email ID and provide your name. Selected comments may also be used in the ‘Letters’ section of the Down To Earth print edition. Down To Earth is a product of our commitment to make changes in the way we manage our environment, protect health and secure livelihoods and economic security for all. We believe strongly that we can and must do things differently. Our aim is to bring you news, perspectives and knowledge to prepare you to change the world. We believe information is a powerful driver for the new tomorrow. © Copyright Down To Earth 2023. All rights reserved.



