India ready to launch its first Atmanirbhar human space flight Gaganyaan by 2024 | Business Insider India
Copyright © 2023. Times Internet Limited. All rights reserved.For reprint rights. Times Syndication Service.
India ready to launch its first Atmanirbhar human space flight Gaganyaan by 2024AdvertisementANIJan 1, 2023, 18:01 ISTBCCLUnion Minister for Science and Technology Dr Jitendra Singh on Sunday announced that the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) is ready to launch India's first Atmanirbhar human flight "Gaganyaan" by the year 2024.
Advertisement
The minister said that India is constantly making new achievements in the field of science and technology. Science is touching new heights under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which is why India's first self-sufficient Gaganyaan will enter space in 2024.

Giving information about the achievements being made by the government in the field of science and technology, Jitendra Singh said "The idea of taking forward the 'Gaganyaan' program was in 2022 itself but due to Covid-19 it was delayed. In the next year (2024), there will be two preliminary launchings, the first launch will be unmanned, this experiment will be done to mark the routes because if the 'Gaganyaan' rocket goes into space then it should also return safely to the same way."

Event AlertIndia's leading MSME SummitBI India is back with its 3rd editionMeet industry experts policymakers, business leaders from across sectors18th - 19th Jan, 2023  Virtual EventRegister NowOur SpeakersRajnish KumarFormer SBI ChairmanAnkur WarikooEducator & Content CreatorBharat SethiCEO & Founder Rage CoffeeAjay ThakurHead - BSE SME & StartupsT KoshyCEO, ONDC"In the other experiment also there will be no human, instead a robot will be there as a human replica. When both the experiments assure that we are completely ready, then in the third one we will send humans into space," the minister added.

Jitendra said that 'Gaganyaan' would be India's first human flight and it will also be an excellent symbol of self-reliance as it will increase the confidence of the nation.

AdvertisementHe also said that Indian origin Rakesh Sharma went to space, but he went under a Soviet mission of space, so this mission will mark Indian origin in space.

"This will be a historic initiative in itself because our space journey started very late compared to America and Russia but today the same country is doing our research with our knowledge and taking lessons and moving forward," the minister said.

Jitendra Singh said, "The way PM Modi has given respect to science in the last 8 years, this has motivated the Indian scientists and has given a respectable place to them. Rules have been simplified, for example, space has been opened for private public participation, today the result is that private rockets are being launched from there and as soon as this year ends, you will get a wonderful kind of enthusiasm across the country."

"While we will be fully prepared to launch "Gaganyaan" which will be the first human flight which will work to take an Astronaut of Indian origin to space of Indian origin, it will be the first mission of this type and hence also a pride for us. It will be a matter of confidence that this work of increasing our self-esteem will work because even though our space journey started late in comparison to America or Russia, today we are in a position where our research findings are similar to those of America and Russia. Countries work to advance their research by making it available," he added.

{{}}
                NewsletterSIMPLY PUT - where we join the dots to inform and inspire you. Sign up for a weekly brief collating many news items into one untangled thought delivered straight to your mailbox.Email addressCAPTCHA:Enter captchaBy clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy PolicyNext Story6 climate wins from 2022 that are worth celebrating


