Flex Space: Companies leased over 100k seats in 2022 - The Economic Times
Don’t miss out on ET Prime stories! Get your daily dose of business updates on WhatsApp. click here! Many foreign companies, offshore funds and non-resident outfits have had to take a call over the past fortnight on a matter that most overseas entities steer clear of for as long as they can — filing returns with the Indian Income Tax (I-T) Department. Hospitality chain Oyo’s initial public offering (IPO) is likely to be delayed by three months as India’s capital markets regulator has asked the Ritesh Agarwal-promoted startup to update its draft IPO papers.  A lot is personal about job interviews in corporate India. Women are up against negative stereotypes and biases more often when being interviewed for jobs. Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News. ETPrime stories of the day Why the battle between Ramanujan, Rembrandt and James Cameron will define our future Campa Cola 2.0: Can Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Retail remix this 70’s classic on nostalgia? Bigbasket’s fightback: Will slow and steady win the quick-commerce race? Trending Now Popular Categories Hot on Web In Case you missed it Top Calculators Top Searched Companies Top Definitions Top Commodities Top Prime Articles Top Story Listing Top Slideshow Top Trending Topics Top Videos Private Companies Popular Articles Most Searched Articles Follow us on: Find this comment offensive? Choose your reason below and click on the Report button. This will alert our moderators to take action Reason for reporting: Your Reason has been Reported to the admin. Log In/Connect with: Will be displayed Will not be displayed Will be displayed Worry not. You’re just a step away.  To read full story, subscribe to ET Prime ₹34 per week 
                    Billed annually at 
                    ₹2499 ₹1749 Super Saver Sale - Flat 30% Off On ET Prime Membership   - - - Subscribe Now (Credit card mandatory) You can cancel your subscription anytime - - - Subscribe Now (Pay Using Netbanking/UPI/Debit Card)  ₹399/month Monthly
        	                        PLAN
        	                     Billed Amount ₹399 No Trial Period  ₹208/month (Save 49%) Yearly
        	                        PLAN
        	                     Billed Amount ₹2,499 15 
            	                                    Days Trial
            	                                +Includes DocuBay and TimesPrime Membership.  ₹150/month (Save 63%) 2-Year
        	                        PLAN
        	                     Billed Amount ₹3,599 15 
            	                                    Days Trial
            	                                +Includes DocuBay and TimesPrime Membership. Quarterly $13.99 7  Days Trial Yearly (Save 40.0%) $33.99 15  Days Trial Get ET Prime for just ₹2499 ₹1749/yr Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 30% Off ON ET PRIME MEMBERSHIP Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get 1 Year Free With 1 and 2-Year ET prime membership Offer Exclusively For You Get Flat 40% Off Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year Offer Exclusively For You ET Prime at ₹ 49 for 1 month Then  ₹ 1749 for 1 year NEW YEAR SALE Buy 1 Year & Get 1 Year ET PRIME FOR FREE Access the exclusive Economic Times stories, Editorial and Expert opinion Exclusive Economic Times Stories, Editorials & Expert opinion across 20+ sectors Stock analysis. Market Research. Industry Trends on 4000+ Stocks Stories you might be interested in
Representative imageEnterprises have leased more than 100,000 seats in 2022 at co-working facilities, 18% higher than the year before and nearly three times the pre-pandemic level, amid the ongoing trend of hybrid working, according to industry experts.

"Continued demand from established companies and the flourishing startup ecosystem, coupled with the new hybrid culture, has positively impacted the flex space take-up," said Ramita Arora, managing director, Bengaluru & head - flex at property consultant Cushman & Wakefield. "Managed space providers have made this solution more acceptable - with a high adoption of technology, easy access of collab spaces, flexible leases, customisation of design and spaces, they have seamlessly facilitated proactive management of office spaces in the current ambiguous workplace environment."

Flex space providers were among the top three-four contributors to office leasing volume, taking-up over 12% of the overall leasing volume in the country's eight largest cities, according to Cushman & Wakefield.

"The demand momentum for flex space will continue to remain robust among corporates with occupiers of all sizes increasing the percentage of flexible spaces in their real estate portfolio owing to the asset-light and cost-efficient agile solutions it offers to businesses. Wider adoption of flex spaces will be used by enterprises to enter a new market, offer on-demand meeting and collaboration spaces for employees, and test alternate workplace designs," said Neetish Sarda, founder, Smartworks.

The company plans to add 2.5-3.0 million sq ft in the coming year, taking the total space in its portfolio to 10 million sq ft. By 2026, it aims to expand this to 28-30 million sq ft.

Flex spaces started to emerge as QSRE (quick service real estate) as they are technology-enabled, fully equipped office space available on a just-in-time basis with consistent service standards across multiple locations.

"Awfis was quick to identify the uptake in demand from tier-II cities owing to the emerging concept of 'distributed workspaces' and became one of the first branded coworking player to tap into the potential of these markets to stay ahead of the curve," said the flexible space provider's CEO Amit Ramani.

In 2023, flex space operators are expected to continue developing business models that would cater to their customer's needs while promoting sustainability.


Don’t miss out on ET Prime stories! Get your daily dose of business updates on WhatsApp. click here!Sunday, 01 Jan, 2023Experience Your Economic Times Newspaper, The Digital Way!Read Complete Print Edition »Front PageEmerging From CrisisBottom LineSunday ChatterMoreDon’t Skip ITR: Taxman to Foreign CosMany foreign companies, offshore funds and non-resident outfits have had to take a call over the past fortnight on a matter that most overseas entities steer clear of for as long as they can — filing returns with the Indian Income Tax (I-T) Department.Qtr’s Delay likely in Oyo IPO as Sebi seeks Updated FilingHospitality chain Oyo’s initial public offering (IPO) is likely to be delayed by three months as India’s capital markets regulator has asked the Ritesh Agarwal-promoted startup to update its draft IPO papers.It’s 2023 but Job Interview Biases Continue A lot is personal about job interviews in corporate India. Women are up against negative stereotypes and biases more often when being interviewed for jobs.Read More News onawfisneetish sardaamit ramaniramita aroraPortfolioDemandPropertyBusinesscushman & wakefield(Catch all the Business News, Breaking News Events and Latest News Updates on The Economic Times.)Download The Economic Times News App to get Daily Market Updates & Live Business News....morelessETPrime stories of the dayWhy the battle between Ramanujan, Rembrandt and James Cameron will define our future4 mins readFMCGCampa Cola 2.0: Can Mukesh Ambani-led Reliance Retail remix this 70’s classic on nostalgia?11 mins readE-commerceBigbasket’s fightback: Will slow and steady win the quick-commerce race?10 mins readSubscribe to ETPrime


