Space agency renamed TASA in official overhaul - Taipei Times
The National Space Organization (NSPO) was yesterday reorganized into a legal entity under the administration of the National Science and Technology Council, and renamed the Taiwan Space Agency (TASA) in English.
 Officials said the agency would be tasked with the research, development and implementation of space-related plans and technology. 
 The new English-language name was chosen to give Taiwan greater international visibility, the agency said, adding that it would retain its Chinese name.
 The restructuring, which was implemented in accordance with the Act for the Establishment of the Taiwan Space Agency (國家太空中心設置條例), is part of the council’s efforts to bolster Taiwan’s competitiveness in space research and demonstrates Taiwan’s global ambitions in the field, council Minister Wu Tsung-tsong (吳政忠) said.
 Taiwan’s development of space science and technology dates back 30 years, and culminated in the enactment of the Space Development Act (太空發展法) on Jan. 20 last year, which was legislated in response to the growing international aerospace sector, he said.
 Aside from coordinating space-related research, TASA would promote international cooperation and exchanges in space science and technology, Wu said, adding that it would also handle tasks related to rocket launch sites, including launch-vehicle registrations and launch permits.
 The agency on Sept. 30 announced plans to launch a domestically designed and built rocket in 2026 as part of the Siraya Rocket Plan project, which, if successful, would be a milestone for Taiwan’s emerging space industry.
 The space agency was established in 1991 as the National Space Program Office to cultivate talent in the area of space research. In 2003, it was merged with other research agencies under the National Applied Research Laboratories and was renamed the National Space Organization in 2005 before its latest reorganization. 

                                                                                Chinese Nationalist Party (KMT) lawmakers on Monday accused the government of “ruining” Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC) by “gifting” it to the US due to pressure from Washington, adding that the move would hollow out Taiwan’s economy.
“It is the KMT that cultivated TSMC and turned it into a leader of the semiconductor industry, but now the Democratic Progressive Party [DPP] government is giving it away. TSMC will surely become ‘USMC’ in the future,” KMT caucus convener Tseng Ming-chung (曾銘宗) told a news conference at the legislature.
KMT caucus deputy secretary Wu I-ding (吳怡玎) said that “the DPP government is not only                                     

                                                                                A 30-year-old woman and her one-year-old son were killed late on Tuesday when a bus making a left turn crashed into them as they crossed an intersection in Taichung’s North District (北區), city authorities said, as the central government detailed measures to address pedestrian safety.
The Taichung Police Department said that the incident occurred as the woman, her husband and their child were crossing Yingcai Road at the intersection with Xueshi Road at about 11:15pm.
As they were crossing, a city bus on the No. 280 route made a left turn on a green light onto Yingcai Road and, apparently failing to                                     
DRUG CONCERN:
                                        Amid panic buying of fever medicine, the FDA called for a meeting with drugmakers to ensure stable supplies to avoid potential rationing, the CECC said                                        A new wave of infections of the Omicron variant of SARS-CoV-2 might be incoming, the Central Epidemic Command Center (CECC) yesterday said, as it reported 14,162 new local COVID-19 cases, a 37 percent increase compared with Monday last week.
Centers for Disease Control (CDC) Director-General Chou Jih-haw (周志浩) said 72 imported COVID-19 cases and 14 deaths were confirmed yesterday.
Deputy Minister of Health and Welfare Victor Wang (王必勝), who heads the CECC, said that 120,755 new local cases were confirmed last week, a 12.6 percent increase over the previous week.
However, daily cases in the past few days have increased by 20 to                                     

                                                                                The Constitutional Court on Friday agreed with the Supreme Administrative Court in upholding a decision by a lower administrative court to reject an appeal by a Taiwanese woman against a government decision to deny her Vietnamese husband a resident visa.
A Vietnamese-Taiwanese surnamed Nguyen had appealed to the Taipei High Administrative Court when her husband’s application for a resident visa was rejected.
He had applied for a resident visa at the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Vietnam to be with Nguyen and their children in Taiwan.
His application was rejected because the authorities suspected that the marriage might not be authentic, prompting                                    



